
                            Preface

This volume presents the final results of the 1994 Benchmark
Survey of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad conducted by the Bureau
of Economic Analysis (BEA), U.S. Department of Commerce.
Benchmark surveys are the Bureau's most comprehensive
surveys--both in terms of companies covered and information
gathered.  The 1994 survey covered the universe of U.S. direct
investment abroad, which consists of all foreign business
enterprises owned 10 percent or more, directly or indirectly, by
a U.S. person.  The last benchmark survey covered 1989.
     The survey collected detailed data on the financial
structure and operations of U.S. parent companies and their
foreign affiliates in 1994.  The data include balance sheets,
income statements, sales of goods and services, employment and
compensation of employees, U.S. trade in goods, research and
development expenditures, and external financial position.  The
survey also collected data on the U.S. direct investment position
abroad and on balance of payments transactions between U.S.
parents and their foreign affiliates in fiscal year 1994.  The
data for U.S. parent companies are disaggregated by industry of
parent.  The data for foreign affiliates are disaggregated by
country and industry of affiliate or by industry of U.S. parent.

                        Acknowledgments
The Bureau of Economic Analysis thanks the staffs of the U.S.
companies that responded to the 1994 benchmark survey for their
efforts in completing and filing reports and for their
cooperation with BEA during processing and review of the data.
     Gerald A. Pollack, Associate Director for International
Economics, provided general guidance for the survey.  Betty L.
Barker, former Chief of the International Investment Division
(IID), and R. David Belli, Chief of IID, directed the design of
the benchmark survey report forms, the conduct of the survey, and
the analysis and publication of the results.
     The Direct Investment Abroad Branch (DIAB) of IID, under the
direction of Patricia C. Walker, was primarily responsible for
conducting the survey.  James Y. Shin, Chief of the Annual and
Benchmark Surveys Section of DIAB, supervised the editing and
processing of the reports.
     The following current and former members of DIAB processed
and edited the survey: Joan O. Adams, Chester C. Braham, Barbara
S. Clark, Margo A. Collier, Emily D. Curry, Laura A. Downey,
David N. Hale, Stephanie L. Henderson, Jeanne Hicks, Barbara K.
Hubbard, Marie K. Laddomada, Christine J. Lee, Sherry Lee, Marcia
S. Miller, Leila C. Morrison, Juanita L. Mortimer, Sidney
Moskowitz, John A. Munz, Pearl Rivers, Ronald L. Ross, William R.
Shupe, Gary M. Solamon, Dwayne Torney, Diann L. Vann, and Andrea
Wright.
     Mahnaz Fahim-Nader and Raymond J. Mataloni, Jr., of the
Research Branch, under the direction of Obie G. Whichard,
Assistant Chief of IID, assisted in the review of the survey
results for consistency and accuracy.  Mark W. New, Chief of the
Quarterly Surveys Section of DIAB, and David H. Galler, Chief of
the Special Surveys Branch, also assisted in the review.
     Smith W. Allnutt, Chief of the Data Retrieval and Analysis
Branch, supervised the computer programming for data estimation
and tabulation.  Deanna D. Ibarra designed the computer programs
for data review.  Arnold Gilbert designed the computer programs
used to derive the estimates for unreported data, to generate the
tables, and to prevent the disclosure of company-specific data.
Robert Price and Irving Skinner assisted in deriving the
estimates for unreported data.  Peter T. Bowman assisted in
generating, and performing disclosure analysis on, the tables.
     Stephen P. Holliday, Chief of the Applications Development
Branch of the Computer Systems and Services Division, coordinated
the computer programming and data conversion and processing
activities that were performed by Elizabeth L. Shumate, Brenda J.
Bolden, Effie M. Eason, and Janice E. Townsend.
     Raymond J. Mataloni, Jr., prepared the text and coordinated
the design of the tables for this publication.
     Ernestine T. Gladden of the Current Business Analysis
Division coordinated the production of the publication and
typeset the text and tables, and W. Ronnie Foster designed the
cover.

                                    Contents

Preface. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Acknowledgments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Methodology. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Coverage. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Basic Concepts and Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    Direct investment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    Determination of residency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    The U.S. parent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    The foreign affiliate. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Accounting Principles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    Use of generally accepted accounting principles. . . . . . .
    Currency translation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Valuation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Fiscal Year Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Confidentiality. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Classification of Data by Country and by Industry. . . . . . .
    Country classification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    Industry classification. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Estimation and general validity of the data  . . . . . . . . .
  Number of U.S. Parents and Foreign Affiliates. . . . . . . . .

  Financial and Operating Data for Foreign Affiliates and U.S.
  Parents. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    Gross product  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    External financial position  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    Sales of goods and services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    Employment and compensation of employees . . . . . . . . . .
    U.S. trade in goods  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    Research and development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Direct Investment Position and Balance of Payments Data. . . .
    U.S. direct investment position abroad . . . . . . . . . . .
    Direct investment capital outflows . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      Equity capital outflows. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      Reinvested earnings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      Intercompany debt outflows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      Coverage, measurement, and presentation. . . . . . . . . .
    Direct investment income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    Direct investment royalties and license fees . . . . . . . .
    Other direct investment services . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     Service charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     Charges for the use of tangible property . . . . . . . . . .
     Film and television tape rentals. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Table arrangement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  List of tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  General notes to tables. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Group I: All Affiliates of All U.S. Parents  . . . . . . . . .
  Group II: Nonbank Affiliates of Nonbank U.S. Parents . . . . .
  Group III: Majority-Owned Nonbank Affiliates of Nonbank U.S.
  Parents  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Group IV: Nonbank Affiliates of U.S. Parents in Banking  . . .
  Group V: Bank Affiliates of All U.S. Parents . . . . . . . . .
  Footnotes to tables. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appendix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Benchmark Survey of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad--1994:
    Instruction Booklet
    Form BE-10A
    Form BE-10B (LF)
    Form BE-10B (SF)
    Form BE-10A BANK
    Form BE-10B BANK
    Form BE-10 Claim for Not Filing
Guide to Industry and Foreign Trade Classifications for
International Surveys
Ordering Publications and Diskettes on U.S. Direct Investment
Abroad . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Financial and operating data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Direct investment position and balance of payments data. . . .
  Special tabulations and statistical analyses . . . . . . . . .
                          Methodology
The 1994 Benchmark Survey of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad was
conducted by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) to obtain
complete and accurate data on U.S. direct investment abroad in
1994.  Reporting in the survey was mandatory under the
International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act.
     The publication presents 243 tables that contain nearly all
of the data collected in the benchmark survey.  Three related
types of data are presented:  (1) Foreign-affiliate financial and
operating data, (2) U.S.-parent financial and operating data, and
(3) direct investment position and balance of payments data.  The
financial and operating data cover balance sheets and income
statements; property, plant, and equipment; employment and
compensation of employees; U.S. trade in goods; sales of goods
and services; gross product; technology; taxes; and external
financial position.
     The direct investment position and balance of payments data
cover positions and transactions between foreign affiliates and
their U.S. parents.  These data are the source of the official
estimates of direct investment that enter the U.S. national
income and product accounts (NIPA's) and the U.S. international
investment position and balance of payments (or "international
transactions") accounts.  Balance of payments data include data
on capital flows between U.S. parents and their foreign
affiliates, receipts of income by U.S. parents from their foreign
affiliates, and U.S. parents' receipts and payments of royalties
and license fees and charges for other services from and to their
foreign affiliates.  The direct investment income and position
data collected in the benchmark survey and shown in this
publication are on a historical-cost basis; prior to their
inclusion in the international accounts and the NIPA's they are
adjusted to reflect current-period prices.
     The amount and type of data collected in the survey
differed, depending on whether the U.S. parents or foreign
affiliates were banks or nonbanks and, for nonbank affiliates,
depending on whether they were majority or minority owned.  In
this publication, data for foreign affiliates and for their U.S.
parents are presented separately for five affiliate groups:  (1)
All affiliates of all U.S. parents, (2) nonbank affiliates of
nonbank U.S. parents, (3) majority-owned nonbank affiliates of
nonbank U.S. parents, (4) nonbank affiliates of U.S. parents in
banking, and (5) bank affiliates of all U.S. parents.
     A variety of table formats are used: Some tables present
data for several related items disaggregated by country or by
industry; others present data for a single item disaggregated by
country (or industry) and cross-classified by industry (or
country).
     The data in this publication supersede the preliminary
estimates that appeared in U.S. Direct Investment Abroad: 1994
Benchmark Survey, Preliminary Results and that were summarized in
"Operations of U.S. Multinational Companies: Preliminary Results
from the 1994 Benchmark Survey" in the December 1996 issue of the
Survey of Current Business.
     The financial and operating data in this publication are
part of an annual time series that covers 1982-95.  Benchmark
surveys were conducted for 3 years in the series--1982, 1989, and
1994--and they will continue to be conducted every 5 years.  In
nonbenchmark survey years, a sample survey is conducted to derive
universe estimates that are comparable with the benchmark survey
data.  The estimates for all years are available in
publications, and the estimates for 1983-95 are also available on
diskettes.  Ordering information for the publications and
diskettes is at the back of this publication.  Some data items
presented here--service charges by type and selected asset and
liability positions of U.S. parents--were collected for the first
time in the 1994 benchmark survey.  Other data items--such as
employment of U.S. parents by industry of sales, U.S. trade in
goods of parents and affiliates by product and by destination or
origin, compensation of and hours worked by production workers of
manufacturing affiliates, sales by affiliates by country of
destination--were collected in the last (1989) benchmark survey,
but not in the annual surveys for nonbenchmark years.
    Table 1 lists the tables in this publication and gives the
comparable tables in the annual survey publications for 1990-93
and for 1995-98.  To aid comparisons with the publications
presenting the annual survey estimates for subsequent years, the
table numbers in this publication are identical to those used in
the annual survey publications for 1995-98.  Many of the tables
that appear in this publication do not have counterparts in the
publications for 1990-93 or for 1995-98, primarily because the
1994 benchmark survey collected data for some items that were not
collected in the annual surveys.  If a comparable table for the
other years is not available, no table numbers appear in table 1
in the columns for the other years' publications.
     In some instances, data items collected separately in the
benchmark survey may have been combined with other items in the
annual survey.  Thus, two or more items that were combined in a
table in the annual survey publications may be shown separately
in a table in this publication.

     Table 1.--Comparison of Tables in This Publication With Those in the Publications for 1990-93
    and the Publications for 1995-98

      Table in this publication        Comparable table in      Comparable table in publica-       Table in this publication        Comparable table in      Comparable table in publica-
                                     publications for 1990-93         tions for 1995-98                                           publications for 1990-93         tions for 1995-98

    Nonbank Foreign Affiliates of Nonbank U.S. Parents                                           Majority-Owned Nonbank Affiliates of Nonbank U.S. Parents

    Group A. Selected Data                                                                       Group A. Selected Data

    II.A 1 .......................II.A 1 .......................II.A 1...........................III.A 1 ......................III.A 1 ......................III.A 1.......................
    II.A 2 .......................II.A 2 .......................II.A 2 ..........................III.A 2 ......................III.A 2 ......................III.A 2.......................

    Group B. Balance Sheet                                                                       Group B. Balance Sheet

    II.B 1 - II.B 4                                                                              III.B 1 - III.B 2 ............III.B 1-2 ....................III.B 1-2...................
    II.B 5 .......................II.B 5 .......................II.B 5...........................III.B 3 - III.B 4 ............III.B 3-4  ...................III.B 3-4.....................
    II.B 6 .......................II.B 6 .......................II.B 6...........................III.B 5 ......................III.B 5 ......................III.B 5.......................
    II.B 7 - II.B 12                                                                             III.B 6 ......................III.B 6 ......................III.B 6.......................
    II.B 13 ......................II.B 15  .....................II.B 13..........................III.B 7 ......................III.B 7 ......................III.B 7.......................
                                                                                                 III. B 8 - III.B 10
    Group D. Property, Plant, and Equipment                                                      III.B 11- III.B 12 ...........III.B 13-14  .................III.B 11-12...................
                                                                                                 III.B 13 .....................III.B 15  ....................III.B 13...............'......
    II.D 6 - II.D 7
                                                                                                 Group C. External Financial Position
    Group E. Income Statement
                                                                                                 III.C 1 ......................III.C 1 ......................III.C 1.......................
    II.E 1 - II.E 2                                                                              III.C 2 - III.C 10
    II.E 3 .......................II.E 3 .......................II.E 3 ....................................................................................
    II.E 4 .......................II.E 4 .......................II.E 4 ..........................Group D. Property, Plant, and Equipment...............
    II.E 5
    II.E 6 .......................II.E 6 .......................II.E 6 ..........................III.D 6 - III.D 8 ..........................................III.D 6 - III.D 8
    II.E 7 .......................II.E 7 .......................II.E 7 ...........................................................................................
    II.E 8                                                                                       Group E. Income Statement
    II.E 9 .......................II.E 9 .......................II.E 9 ...........................................................................................
    II.E 10 - II.E 11                                                                            III.E 1 ......................III.E 1 ......................III.E 1.......................
                                                                                                 III.E 2 ......................III.E 2 ......................III.E 2 ......................
    Group F. Sales                                                                               III.E 3 ......................III.E 3 ......................III.E 3 ......................
                                                                                                 III.E 4 ......................III.E 4 ......................III.E 4.......................
    II.F 24                                                                                      III.E 5 ......................III.E 5 ......................III.E 5 ......................
                                                                                                 III.E 6 ......................III.E 6 ......................III.E 6 ......................
    Group H. Employment and Compensation of Employees                                            III.E 7 ......................III.E 7 ......................III.E 7.......................
                                                                                                 III.E 8 ......................III.E 8 ......................III.E 8.......................
    II.H 3 .......................II.G 3 .......................II.H 3...........................III.E 9 ......................III.E 9 ......................III.E 9 ......................
    II.H 4 .......................II.G 4 .......................II.H 4..................'........III.E 10 - III.E 11...
    II.H 6 .......................II.G 6 .......................II.H 6...................................................
    II.H 7 .......................II.G 7 .......................II.H 7...........................Group F. Sales.........
    II.H 11 ......................II.G 11 ......................II.H 11.............................................
    II.H 12                                                                                      III.F 1 ......................III.F 1 ......................III.F 1 ......................
                                                                                                 III.F 2 ......................III.F 2 ......................III.F 2 ......................
    Group I. U.S. Trade in Goods                                                                 III.F 3 ......................III.F 3 ......................III.F 3 ......................
                                                                                                 III.F 4 ......................III.F 4 ......................III.F 4.......................
    II.I 1 - II.I 2                                                                              III.F 5 - III.F 6
    II.I 5 .......................II.H 5 .......................II.I 5...........................III.F 7 ......................III.F 7 ......................III.F 7.......................
    II.I 6 .......................II.H 6 .......................II.I 6...........................III.F 8 ......................III.F 8 ......................III.F 8 ......................
    II.I 9                                                                                       III.F 9 ......................III.F 9 ......................III.F 9.......................
    II.I 19 ......................II.H 22 ......................II.I 19..........................III.F 10 - III.F 12...........
    II.I 20 ......................II.H 23 ......................II.I 20..........................III.F 13 .....................III.F 13 .....................III.F 13 .....................
    II.I 23                                                                                      III.F 14 .....................III.F 14 .....................III.F 14 .....................


                            Coverage
     The benchmark survey covered every U.S. person (as defined
below) having a foreign affiliate--that is, having direct or
indirect ownership or control of 10 percent or more of the voting
securities of an incorporated foreign business enterprise or an
equivalent interest in an unincorporated foreign business
enterprise--at any time during its 1994 fiscal year.  Reports
were required even though the foreign business enterprise may
have been established, acquired, liquidated, sold, or otherwise
inactivated during the year.
     Each benchmark survey report consisted of (1) Form BE-10A,
which requested the data for the U.S. parent company, and (2) one
or more Form BE-10B's, which requested the data for each of the
parent's foreign affiliates that had total assets, sales, or net
income (or loss) greater than $3 million or that owned another
foreign affiliate for which a Form BE-1OB had to be filed
regardless of the size of its own assets, sales, or net income
(or loss).  On a supplement to Form BE-1OA, U.S. parents had to
list all foreign affiliates that were exempt from being reported
on Form BE-10B and give a few selected data items--percentage
ownership, total assets, sales, net income, employment size
class, and direct investment position--for each.  If all foreign
affiliates of a U.S. parent were exempt from being reported on
Form BE-10B, the U.S. parent was only required to file Part I,
items 1-4 of Form BE-10A (to identify itself) and the Form BE-10A
Supplement (to identify its exempt foreign affiliates).
     U.S. parents and foreign affiliates in banking--that is,
parents and affiliates that had over 50 percent of their total
revenues generated by activities characteristic of depository
institutions (banks, savings and loans, and credit unions)--were
permitted to report less detailed financial and operating data
than nonbank parents and affiliates.  Less detail was required
because most of the information on bank parents and affiliates
that was needed for policymaking purposes already had to be
reported to other U.S. Government agencies.  Shorter, specialized
forms for bank parents (Form BE-10A BANK) and for bank affiliates
(Form BE-1OB BANK) were substituted for the standard forms.
     The reporting criteria for banks are similar to those for
nonbanks; however, foreign bank affiliates that were owned
indirectly 50 percent or less by their U.S. parents and that did
not own a nonbank foreign affiliate for which a Form BE-10B had
to be filed were exempt from being reported even if their total
assets, sales, or net income (or loss) were greater than $3
million.
     Based on the above criteria, complete BE-10A forms were
filed by 2,727 U.S. parents, of which 60 were banks; 709 U.S.
parents filed partial BE-10A forms because all their foreign
affiliates were exempt.  BE-10B forms were received for 22,332
foreign affiliates, of which 571 were banks; 7,328 foreign
affiliates were listed by their U.S. parents as exempt from being
reported on Form BE-10B.
     In table 2, foreign affiliates for which BE-1OB forms were
filed are compared with all foreign affiliates in the 1994 direct
investment universe.  Affiliates for which BE-1OB forms were
filed accounted for 75.3 percent of the universe in terms of
numbers.  However, because of the relatively low exemption level
on the form, they accounted for almost the entire universe in
terms of value--99.9 percent of total assets, 99.7 percent of
sales, 100.2 percent of net income, and 99.9 percent of the
historical-cost U.S. direct investment position abroad.  Thus, in
terms of value, coverage of the universe is virtually complete.
     Nonbank affiliates for which BE-10B forms were filed
accounted for 99.8 percent of total assets, 99.7 percent of
sales, 100.2 percent of net income, and 99.9 percent of the
historical-cost U.S. direct investment position of the
nonbank affiliate universe.  The corresponding percentages for
bank affiliates were 100.0, 100.0, 100.0, and 100.0 percent,
respectively.
    Table 2.--Foreign Affiliates for Which BE-10B Forms Were Filed in the 1994 Benchmark Survey
                and the Universe of Foreign Affiliates
                                                                     Number    Millions of dollars
                                                                       of          Total        Sales         Net         U.S.
                                                                     affil-       assets                    income       direct
                                                                      iates                                              invest-
                                                                                                                          ment
                                                                                                                        position
                                                                                                                         abroad
                                                                                                                          on a
                                                                                                                         histor-
                                                                                                                          ical
                                                                                                                          cost
                                                                                                                          basis
    Universe of foreign affiliates:
          Total ..................................................      29,660    3,385,656    1,835,601      101,636      607,149
          Nonbanks ...............................................      28,669    2,381,523    1,762,216       93,831      581,257
          Banks ..................................................         991    1,004,133       73,385        7,805       25,892

    Foreign affiliates for which
      BE-10B forms were filed:
          Total ..................................................      22,332    3,380,983    1,830,744      101,792      606,393
          Nonbanks ...............................................      21,436    2,376,902    1,757,388       93,986      580,508
          Banks ..................................................         896    1,004,081       73,356        7,806       25,885

    Foreign affiliates exempt from being
      reported on the BE-10B form:
          Total ..................................................       7,328        4,673        4,857         -156          756
          Nonbanks ...............................................       7,233        4,621        4,828         -155          749
          Banks ..................................................          95           52           29           -1            7

    Addenda--Affiliates for which BE-10B forms
      were filed as a percentage of the universe:
          Total ..................................................        75.3         99.9         99.7        100.2         99.9
          Nonbanks ...............................................        74.8         99.8         99.7        100.2         99.9
          Banks ..................................................        90.4        100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0


       Except for table 2, all tables in this publication cover
only foreign affiliates for which BE-10B forms were filed and
their U.S. parents.  Thus, when the term "all foreign affiliates"
is used, it refers to all foreign affiliates for which BE-10B
forms were filed, not to the universe of affiliates shown in
table 2.

                 Basic Concepts and Definitions
     This section describes the basic concepts and definitions
used in the 1994 benchmark survey.  Major differences between
these concepts and definitions and those used in BEA's last
benchmark survey, which covered 1989, and in other BEA surveys of
U.S. direct investment abroad since 1989 are noted.

Direct investment
     Direct investment implies that a person in one country has a
lasting interest in, and a degree of influence over the
management of, a business enterprise in another country.  For the
United States, in accordance with international guidelines,
ownership or control by a single person of 10 percent or more of
an enterprise's voting securities or the equivalent is considered
evidence of such a lasting interest or degree of influence over
management.  Thus, U.S. direct investment abroad is the
ownership or control, directly or indirectly, by one U.S. person
of 10 percent or more of the voting securities of an incorporated
foreign business enterprise or an equivalent interest in an
unincorporated foreign business enterprise.  Only U.S. investment
abroad that is direct investment was covered by the 1994
benchmark survey.
     Direct investment in a foreign business enterprise can
result from direct or indirect ownership by a U.S. person.  In
direct ownership, the U.S. person holds the ownership interest in
the foreign business enterprise.  In indirect ownership, one or
more tiers of ownership exist between the foreign business
enterprise and the U.S. person.  A U.S. person's percentage of
indirect voting ownership in a given foreign business enterprise
is equal to the direct-voting-ownership percentage of the U.S.
person in the first foreign business enterprise in the ownership
chain multiplied by that first enterprise's
direct-voting-ownership percentage in the second foreign business
enterprise in the chain multiplied by the corresponding
percentages for all other intervening enterprises in the chain
multiplied by the last intervening enterprise's
direct-voting-ownership percentage in the given foreign business
enterprise.  If more than one ownership chain exists, the
percentages of direct and indirect ownership in all chains are
summed to determine the U.S. person's ownership percentage.
     Direct investment refers to ownership by a single person,
not to the combined ownership of all persons in a country.  A
"person" is broadly defined to include any individual, branch,
partnership, associated group, association, estate, trust,
corporation or other organization (whether organized or not
under the laws of any State), and any government (including a
foreign government, the U.S. Government, a State or local
government, and any agency, corporation or financial institution,
or other entity or instrumentality thereof, including a
government-sponsored agency).
     An associated group consists of two or more persons who
exercise their voting privileges in a concerted manner by the
appearance of their actions, by agreement, or by understanding in
order to influence the management of a business enterprise.  The
following are deemed to be associated groups: (1) Members of the
same family, (2) a business enterprise and one or more of its
officers and directors, (3) members of a syndicate or joint
venture, and (4) a corporation and its domestic subsidiaries.
Thus, direct investment is considered to exist as long as the
combined ownership interests of all members of the group is at
least 10 percent, even if no member owns 10 percent or more.  The
definition assumes, in effect, that the members' influence over
management is comparable to that of a single person with the same
ownership interest.
    Investment by a U.S. person of less than 10 percent in a
foreign business enterprise is not considered direct investment,
even if another U.S. person has an interest of a least 10 percent
in the enterprise.  Thus, if one U.S. person owns 11 percent and
another owns 9 percent, the 11-percent interest is included, but
the 9-percent interest is excluded.  However, if two or more U.S.
persons each hold an interest of at least 10 percent, each such
interest is included.

Determination of residency
     For purposes of the benchmark survey (and BEA's other direct
investment surveys), the "United States" means the 50 States, the
District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and all
U.S. territories and possessions.  U.S. offshore oil and gas
sites are also considered to be in the United States.
     "Foreign" means that which is situated outside the United
States or that belongs to, or is characteristic of, a country
other than the United States.
     The country of residence, rather than the country of
citizenship, of a person is used to determine whether a direct
investor or the business enterprise owned by a direct investor is
U.S. or foreign.  A U.S. person is any person who resides in, or
is subject to the jurisdiction of, the United States, and a
foreign person is any person who resides outside the United
States or who is subject to the jurisdiction of a country other
than the United States.
     A person is considered a resident of, or is subject to the
jurisdiction of, the country in which the person is located if
the person resides or expects to reside in that country for 1
year or more.  Under this rule, persons who reside or expect to
reside outside their country of citizenship for less than 1 year
are considered residents of their country of citizenship, whereas
persons who reside or expect to reside outside their country of
citizenship for 1 year or more are considered residents of the
country in which they are residing.
     There are two exceptions to this rule.  First, individuals
(and their immediate families) who either own or are employed by
a business in their country of citizenship and who are residing
outside of that country for 1 year or more in order to conduct
business for the enterprise are considered residents of their
country of citizenship if they intend to return within a
reasonable period of time.  Second, individuals who reside
outside their country of citizenship because they are government
employees (such as diplomats, consular officials, members of the
armed forces, and their immediate families) are considered
residents of their country of citizenship regardless of their
length of stay.


The U.S. parent
     A U.S. parent is a U.S. person who has direct
investment--that is, a 10-percent-or-more direct or indirect
ownership interest--in a foreign business enterprise.  Because a
U.S. parent is a "person" in the broad sense defined above, it
may be a business enterprise; a religious, charitable, or other
nonprofit organization; an individual; a government; an estate or
trust; and so forth.  Most U.S. parents are business enterprises.
A business enterprise is any organization, association, branch,
venture, or the ownership of any real estate that exists to make
a profit or to otherwise secure economic advantage.
     If incorporated, the U.S. parent is the fully consolidated
U.S. enterprise that consists of (1) the U.S. parent corporation
whose voting securities are not owned more than 50 percent by
another U.S. corporation, and (2) proceeding down each ownership
chain from that U.S. corporation, any U.S. corporation (including
Foreign Sales Corporations located within the United States)
whose voting securities are more than 50 percent owned by the
U.S. corporation above it.  All other U.S. corporations and all
foreign business enterprises owned by the U.S. parent are
excluded from the full consolidation.
    Where a U.S. individual or other nonbusiness person (such as
a nonprofit organization or a government) owns more than 50
percent of a U.S. business enterprise that, in turn, owns a
foreign business enterprise, the U.S. business enterprise, not
the individual or other nonbusiness person, is considered the
parent.  This treatment ensures that financial and operating
data of the U.S. business enterprise are included in the
U.S.-parent data and that data on the transactions and positions
of the U.S. business enterprise with the foreign business
enterprise are included in the foreign-affiliate data reported to
BEA.  Any direct transactions or positions of the individual or
other nonbusiness person with the foreign business enterprise
must be reported by the U.S. business enterprise and are,
therefore, also included in the direct investment accounts.
     Although the U.S. Government may have equity investment in a
foreign business enterprise, such investment is not covered by
BEA's direct investment surveys.  Data on such investment are
reported to other agencies and are included by BEA in the U.S.
Government accounts, rather than in the direct investment
accounts, of the U.S. international transactions accounts.
     In the case of a U.S. estate, the estate itself, not its
beneficiary, is considered the U.S. parent.  For a U.S. trust,
however, either the beneficiary or the creator of the trust may
be considered the U.S. parent with respect to any investments of
the trust, depending on the circumstances.  The creator is
considered the parent if there is a reversionary interest--that
is, if the interest in the trust may be returned to the creator
after a period of time--or if the creator is a corporation or
other organization that designates its own shareholders or
members as beneficiaries.  In all other cases, the beneficiary is
considered the parent.

The foreign affiliate
     A foreign affiliate is a foreign business enterprise in
which there is U.S. direct investment; that is, it is a foreign
business enterprise that is directly or indirectly owned or
controlled by one U.S. person to the extent of 10 percent or more
of the voting securities for an incorporated business enterprise
or an equivalent interest for an unincorporated business
enterprise.  The affiliate is called a foreign affiliate to
denote that it is located outside the United States.
     A business enterprise, and therefore an affiliate, may be
either incorporated or unincorporated.  Unincorporated business
enterprises primarily take the form of branches and partnerships.
     A foreign affiliate that is a branch consists of operations
or activities in a foreign country that a U.S. person conducts in
its own name rather than through an entity separately
incorporated abroad.  By definition, a branch is wholly owned.
If a company is incorporated in the United States but carries out
substantially all of its operations abroad, its foreign
operations are treated by BEA as a branch (and, therefore, as a
foreign affiliate) even though the U.S. company itself may
consider the operations to be an integral part of, and would
normally consolidate them with, its own operations and accounts.
     In general, the foreign operations or activities of a U.S.
person are considered to be a foreign affiliate if they are
legally or functionally separable from the domestic operations or
activities of the U.S. person.  In most cases, it is clear
whether the foreign operations or activities constitute a foreign
affiliate.  If an operation or activity is incorporated
abroad--as most are--it is always considered a foreign affiliate.
The situation is not always so clear with unincorporated foreign
operations or activities.  Most are legally or functionally
separable from those of the U.S. person, but some are not clearly
separable, and the determination of whether they constitute a
foreign affiliate is made on a case-by-case basis, depending on
the weight of the evidence.
     The following characteristics would indicate that the
unincorporated operation or activity is probably a foreign
affiliate:
  1. It pays foreign income taxes.
       2. It has a substantial physical presence abroad, as evidenced
     by plant and equipment or by employees that are permanently
     located abroad.
       3. It has separate financial records that would allow the
     preparation of financial statements, including a balance
     sheet and income statement.  (A mere record of disbursements
     to, or receipts from, the foreign operation or activity
     would not constitute a "financial statement" for this
     purpose.)
       4. It takes title to the goods it sells and receives revenues
     from the sale, or it receives funds from customers for its
     own account for services it performs.
     The following characteristics would indicate that the
unincorporated operation or activity is probably not a foreign
affiliate:
       1. It engages only in sales promotion or public relations
     activities on behalf of the U.S. person.
       2. It conducts business abroad only for the U.S. person's
     account, not for its own account.
       3. It has no separate financial records that allow the
     preparation of financial statements.
  4. Its expenses are paid by the U.S. parent.
  5. It pays no foreign income taxes.
       6. It has limited physical assets or few employees permanently
     located abroad.
     Consistent with these guidelines, the foreign stations,
ticket offices, and terminal or port facilities of a U.S. airline
or ship operator that provide services only to the airline's or
ship operator's own operations are not considered foreign
affiliates, because most of the revenues, such as passenger fares
and freight charges, collected by these facilities are generated
by the travel and transportation services rendered by the airline
or ship operator of which they are a part, not by the activities
of these facilities.  However, if the facilities provide services
to unaffiliated persons rather than to the U.S. airline or ship
operator that owns them, they are considered foreign affiliates.
     In general, each foreign affiliate was required to be
reported separately.  However, consolidation of affiliates in the
same country was permitted if the affiliates were in the same
three-digit industry or were integral parts of the same business
operation.  (As an example of the latter, if Mexican affiliate
A manufactured automobile engines and a majority of its sales
were to Mexican affiliate B, which assembled automobiles, then
affiliates A and B could have been consolidated.)  Under no
circumstances were affiliates in different countries permitted to
be consolidated.
     A majority-owned foreign affiliate (MOFA) is a foreign
affiliate in which the combined direct and indirect ownership
interest of all U.S. parents exceeds 50 percent.  Data for MOFA's
rather than for all foreign affiliates are required in order to
examine the foreign investments over which U.S. parents exert
unambiguous control.  Additionally, some aspects of affiliate
operations can only be analyzed from the perspective of MOFA
operations, because the necessary data items are not collected
for other affiliates.
     A small percentage of MOFA's are majority owned by a group
of U.S. parents in which none of the parents has a majority
stake.  The group usually influences or controls the management
of the affiliate as a single parent that has the same total
ownership interest would.  Most of these jointly owned MOFA's are
in the petroleum industry, where parents sometimes pool their
resources in order to raise capital or to mitigate risk.

                     Accounting Principles

Use of generally accepted accounting principles
     Data in the 1994 benchmark survey were required to be
reported as they would have been for stockholders' reports rather
than for tax or other purposes.  Thus, U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP) were followed unless otherwise
indicated by the survey instructions.  The survey instructions
departed from GAAP in cases where the departure would result in
data that were conceptually or analytically more useful or more
appropriate for direct investment purposes.  One major departure
from GAAP was the use of the unique consolidation rules (see the
preceding discussions of consolidated reporting in "The U.S.
Parent" and in "The Foreign Affiliate" in the section "Basic
Concepts and Definitions").

Currency translation
     Monetary amounts were reported to BEA in U.S. dollars.  The
report forms specified that when a foreign affiliate's assets,
liabilities, revenues, and expenses were denominated or measured
in the affiliate's financial statements in a foreign currency,
they must be translated into dollars in accordance with GAAP,
specifically Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No.
52 (FASB 52).
     Under FASB 52, all assets, liabilities, revenues, and
expenses are translated at current exchange rates.  For assets
and liabilities, the exchange rate as of the balance sheet date
is used.  For revenues and expenses, weighted-average exchange
rates for the period are used.
     Under FASB 52, exchange gains and losses resulting from
remeasuring the foreign affiliates' assets and liabilities that
are denominated in foreign currencies other than the affiliate's
principal, or functional, currency into the functional currency
at exchange rates that differ from those used in the prior period
are included in affiliates' net income.  However, exchange gains
and losses that result from translating opening balances for
foreign affiliates' assets and liabilities from the functional
currency into U.S. dollars at exchange rates different from those
for closing balances are taken directly to a separate component
of owners' equity, entitled "translation adjustments," rather
than being included in net income.  The effects of translating
foreign affiliates' revenues and expenses from their functional
currency into U.S. dollars at exchange rates different from those
in the prior period are reflected in net income, but they are not
separately identified, and because they do not represent changes
in the values of assets or liabilities, they are not regarded as
capital gains or losses.  (For a more complete description of
translation procedures, refer to FASB 52.)

                           Valuation
     The 1994 benchmark survey data are, for the most part,
valued in the prices and exchange rates of 1994.  Because 1994
prices and exchange rates may differ from those of other years,
changes in U.S.-parent and foreign-affiliate data over time may
reflect changes in prices and exchange rates rather than real
changes.  In addition, the accuracy of intercountry comparisons
of foreign affiliate data may be affected if the market exchange
rates used to translate foreign-affiliate data to U.S. dollars do
not reflect the relative purchasing power of different
currencies.
     Some benchmark survey items--such as property, plant and
equipment, and the direct investment position--are valued at
historical cost rather than in 1994 prices.  For these items, the
values shown largely reflect prices at the time the asset was
acquired or the investment was made rather than prices of
1994.

                     Fiscal Year Reporting
     Data for foreign affiliates and U.S. parents were required
to be reported on a fiscal year basis.  The 1994 fiscal year was
defined to be the affiliate's or parent's financial-reporting
year that ended in calendar year 1994.
     The fiscal year data from the benchmark survey that are
presented in this publication are not comparable with the
calendar year estimates of transactions between foreign
affiliates and their U.S. parents that appear in the U.S.
international transactions accounts or with the calendar year
estimates of the U.S. direct investment position abroad.  The
benchmark survey data must be adjusted to a calendar year basis
before they are entered into the U.S. direct investment position
abroad and the international transactions accounts.
     The extent of noncomparability between the benchmark survey
data presented here and the direct investment estimates that will
be presented in the U.S. direct investment position and balance
of payments accounts depends on the number and size of foreign
affiliates and U.S. parents whose fiscal years do not correspond
to the calendar year.  Figures on the number of foreign
affiliates and U.S. parents that have fiscal years that do not
correspond to the calendar year and on the portion of the
benchmark survey data accounted for by these foreign affiliates
and U.S. parents are shown in tables 3-5.

    Table 3. Selected Data for All Foreign Affiliates and All U.S. Parents by Fiscal Year Ending Date
                                                                                                      Fiscal year ending date
                                                                                           Total         January 1       April 1 to      July 1 to      October 1 to     Addendum:
                                                                                                        to March 31       June 30       September 30    December 31     December 31

                                      Affiliate data

    Number of affiliates ...........................................                           22,332           1,099           2,124           1,896          17,213          14,408
    Total assets (millions of dollars) ..............................                       3,380,983          79,476         119,449          86,507       3,095,550       2,728,127
    Sales (millions of dollars) ....................................                        1,830,744          78,472         145,736          81,642       1,524,894       1,317,440
    Net income (millions of dollars) ....................................                     101,792           1,574           4,281           2,628          93,309          78,727
    Number of employees (thousands) ..................................                        7,240.5           327.1           635.4           426.6         5,851.5         4,952.2
    Compensation of employees (millions of dollars) .......................                   230,629          10,451          17,354          12,484         190,339         161,459
    U.S. direct investment position abroad on a historical-cost
      basis (millions of dollars) .........................................
    Direct investment income (millions of dollars) ...................

                                     U.S. parent data

    Number of U.S. parents ............................................                         2,681             217             302             283           1,879           1,691
    Total assets (millions of dollars) ..............................                       8,636,571         199,776         215,709         185,211       8,035,874       7,556,632
    Sales (millions of dollars) ....................................                        4,148,552         245,185         277,540         220,838       3,404,989       3,183,907
    Net income (millions of dollars) ....................................                     214,352           3,259          10,750           4,633         195,710         182,419
    Number of employees (thousands) ..................................                       19,330.0         1,504.4         1,400.4         1,234.6        15,190.6        13,981.9
    Compensation of employees (millions of dollars) .......................                   840,608          28,852          51,748          49,998         710,009         653,746


    Table 4. Number and Total Assets of All Foreign Affiliates, Industry and Country of Affiliate by Fiscal Year Ending Date
                                                                                                                       Fiscal year ending date
                                                                                                            Total         January 1       April 1 to      July 1 to      October 1 to     Addendum:
                                                                                                                         to March 31       June 30       September 30    December 31     December 31
                                                                                                       Number of affiliates
    Total ....................................................................................                  22,332           1,099           2,124           1,896          17,213          14,408

                                                By industry

    Petroleum .........................................................................................          1,508              12              30              90           1,376           1,368
    Manufacturing .....................................................................................          8,018             402             784             817           6,015           4,890
      Food and kindred products .......................................................................            796              25             146             132             493             425
      Chemicals and allied products ...................................................................          1,917              77             159             155           1,526           1,217
      Primary and fabricated metals ...................................................................            717              20              62              65             570             485
      Industrial machinery and equipment...............................................................          1,016              60              79             105             772             555
      Electronic and other electric equipment .........................................................            844              72              85             118             569             492
      Transportation equipment ........................................................................            449              20              11              52             366             320
      Other manufacturing .............................................................................          2,279             128             242             190           1,719           1,396
    Wholesale trade ...................................................................................          5,058             348             699             604           3,407           2,590
    Depository institutions .................................................................                      571               2               2               1             566             552
    Finance (except depository institutions), insurance, and real estate ..............................          2,981              71             190             121           2,549           2,186
    Services ..........................................................................................          2,705             185             254             195           2,071           1,768
    Other industries ..................................................................................          1,491              79             165              68           1,179           1,054

                                                By country

    Canada ............................................................................................          2,094             139             192             197           1,566           1,405
    Europe ............................................................................................         10,781             520           1,155           1,016           8,090           6,620
      Of which:
      France ............................................................................                        1,262              69             130             128             935             743
      Germany ...........................................................................                        1,403              79             145             139           1,040             845
      Netherlands ......................................................................                         1,013              46             153             102             712             580
      United Kingdom ...................................................................                         2,546             131             256             237           1,922           1,629
    Latin America and Other Western Hemisphere .....................................                             3,603             101             269             237           2,996           2,570
      Of which:
      Brazil ............................................................................                          448              18              37              27             366             310
      Mexico ..........................................................................                            846              27              79              72             668             584
    Africa ............................................................................................            516              23              31              33             429             381
    Middle East .......................................................................................            354               7              20              12             315             277
    Asia and Pacific ..................................................................................          4,877             302             451             399           3,725           3,069
      Of which:
      Australia .........................................................................                          864              44              98              85             637             530
      Japan .............................................................................                        1,042             148              80             104             710             569
    International .....................................................................................            107               7               6               2              92              86
                                                                                                       Total assets (millions of dollars)
    Total ....................................................................................               3,380,983          79,476         119,449          86,507       3,095,550       2,728,127

                                                By industry

    Petroleum .........................................................................................        253,947             440           3,088           2,332         248,086         247,903
    Manufacturing .....................................................................................        678,637          43,631          50,628          39,594         544,785         454,020
      Food and kindred products .......................................................................         91,439          10,574          13,345           9,142          58,378          54,242
      Chemicals and allied products ...................................................................        148,707           2,296          14,307           5,259         126,845         108,975
      Primary and fabricated metals ...................................................................         30,376             463           1,436           1,636          26,842          22,363
      Industrial machinery and equipment...............................................................         98,608           3,239           5,828           9,729          79,813          61,676
      Electronic and other electric equipment .........................................................         53,152           3,177           3,814           6,061          40,100          34,806
      Transportation equipment ........................................................................        118,136              (D)            473              (D)         98,030          85,162
      Other manufacturing .............................................................................        138,218              (D)         11,425              (D)        114,777          86,796
    Wholesale trade ...................................................................................        180,874           7,237          18,200          16,228         139,210         106,907
    Depository institutions .................................................................                  895,428              (D)             (D)             (D)        894,818         874,037
    Finance (except depository institutions), insurance, and real estate ..............................      1,099,206          12,005          19,994          15,219       1,051,987         849,273
    Services ..........................................................................................        106,493           7,578           9,664           8,899          80,352          70,313
    Other industries ..................................................................................        166,398              (D)             (D)             (D)        136,313         125,673

                                                By country

    Canada ............................................................................................        237,490          13,768           9,684           7,073         206,965         189,587
    Europe ............................................................................................      1,837,846          23,693          64,898          53,747       1,695,508       1,488,469
      Of which:
      France ............................................................................                      133,496           1,585           7,554          10,400         113,957         106,819
      Germany ...........................................................................                      225,964           2,520           7,452           7,304         208,689         190,731
      Netherlands ......................................................................                       128,555           1,303          13,345           8,005         105,902          92,039
      United Kingdom ...................................................................                       913,546          12,232          17,309          11,468         872,537         751,196
    Latin America and Other Western Hemisphere .....................................                           468,889           5,972          10,091           7,221         445,605         404,028
      Of which:
      Brazil ............................................................................                       52,036             608           2,301           1,389          47,738          43,023
      Mexico ..........................................................................                         59,905             486           2,124           1,410          55,886          50,716
    Africa ............................................................................................         23,708             430           1,243             714          21,322          20,469
    Middle East .......................................................................................         66,486              (D)            655              (D)         65,383          64,218
    Asia and Pacific ..................................................................................        731,380          35,272          32,784          17,296         646,027         550,888
      Of which:
      Australia .........................................................................                       98,585             962          11,214           1,757          84,652          81,150
      Japan .............................................................................                      291,922          26,246           7,018           9,522         249,137         196,491
    International .....................................................................................         15,184              (D)             95              (D)         14,740          10,468
      D Suppressed to avoid disclosure of data of individual companies.

    Table 5. Number and Total Assets of All U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Fiscal Year Ending Date
                                                                                                                       Fiscal year ending date
                                                                                                            Total         January 1       April 1 to      July 1 to      October 1 to     Addendum:
                                                                                                                         to March 31       June 30       September 30    December 31     December 31
                                                                                                       Number of parents
         All industries ...............................................................................          2,681             217             302             283           1,879           1,691

    Petroleum .........................................................................................            106               1               6              13              86              82
    Manufacturing .....................................................................................          1,552             113             193             193           1,053             923
      Food and kindred products .......................................................................             80               5              16              19              40              34
      Chemicals and allied products ...................................................................            207              14              15              13             165             147
      Primary and fabricated metals ...................................................................            187              12              21              21             133             124
      Industrial machinery and equipment...............................................................            274              22              36              38             178             154
      Electronic and other electric equipment .........................................................            211              19              31              38             123             105
      Transportation equipment ........................................................................             82               3               7              11              61              53
      Other manufacturing .............................................................................            511              38              67              53             353             306
    Wholesale trade ...................................................................................            250              44              29              28             149             137
    Depository institutions .................................................................                       60               0               0               0              60              60
    Finance (except depository institutions), insurance, and real estate ..............................            184               7               7               5             165             161
    Services ..........................................................................................            281              33              47              31             170             149
    Other industries ..................................................................................            248              19              20              13             196             179
                                                                                                       Total assets (millions of dollars)
         All industries ...............................................................................      8,636,571         199,776         215,709         185,211       8,035,874       7,556,632

    Petroleum .........................................................................................        529,129              (D)          8,354              (D)        510,880         510,793
    Manufacturing .....................................................................................      2,296,314          50,917         136,032         119,833       1,989,535       1,826,345
      Food and kindred products .......................................................................        246,480          10,701          52,111          27,098         156,570         150,334
      Chemicals and allied products ...................................................................        416,463           5,018          30,756          12,631         368,058         341,750
      Primary and fabricated metals ...................................................................        104,978           4,254           5,932           4,351          90,442          88,379
      Industrial machinery and equipment...............................................................        232,323           3,228           9,293          29,934         189,869         149,803
      Electronic and other electric equipment .........................................................        308,979          10,188          10,812          23,038         264,942         244,892
      Transportation equipment ........................................................................        534,200           2,347           5,326           6,574         519,952         502,867
      Other manufacturing .............................................................................        452,891          15,181          21,802          16,207         399,702         348,320
    Wholesale trade ...................................................................................        126,043          32,945           6,826          13,529          72,743          67,490
    Depository institutions .................................................................                1,918,568               0               0               0       1,918,568       1,918,568
    Finance (except depository institutions), insurance, and real estate ..............................      2,512,799          43,734           3,952              34       2,465,079       2,195,192
    Services ..........................................................................................        227,916          12,437          37,606          31,226         146,647         135,282
    Other industries ..................................................................................      1,025,802              (D)         22,942              (D)        932,423         902,963
      D Suppressed to avoid disclosure of data of individual companies.



                              Confidentiality
     Under the International Investment and Trade in Services
Survey Act, the direct investment data collected by BEA are
confidential; they cannot be published in such a manner "that the
person to whom the information relates can be specifically
identified" without the prior written permission of the
respondent.  For this publication, each cell in a table was
tested to determine whether the data it contained should be
suppressed (that is, not shown) for confidentiality reasons.  A
"(D)" in a cell indicates that the data were suppressed to avoid
the disclosure of information on an individual company.  For
employment data, a letter representing a size range was entered
in place of a "(D)."
     The act further stipulates that the data must be used for
statistical and analytical purposes only; the use of an
individual company's data for tax, investigative, or regulatory
purposes is prohibited.  Access to the data is limited to
officials and employees (including consultants and contractors
and their employees) of Government agencies designated by the
President to perform functions under the Act.
     Private individuals may obtain access to the data only in
the capacity of experts, consultants, or contractors whose
services are procured by BEA, usually on a temporary or
intermittent basis, for purposes of carrying out projects under
the act--for example, to perform research on U.S. direct
investment abroad.  These people are subject to the same
confidentiality requirements as regular employees of BEA or other
government agencies performing functions under the act.

       Classification of Data by Country and by Industry

Country classification
     Each foreign affiliate is classified by its country of
location--that is, the country in which the affiliate's physical
assets are located or in which its primary activity is carried
out.  In most cases, the country of location of a business
enterprise is the same as its country of organization or
incorporation.  However, in some cases, a business enterprise is
incorporated in one country, but part or all of its physical
assets are located, or its activities carried out, in a second
country.  If all its physical assets or operations are located in
a single foreign country outside its country of incorporation,
the enterprise is treated as an incorporated foreign affiliate
in the country where its physical assets and operations are
located.  If, however, an enterprise has some physical assets or
operations in each country, it is considered two separate
affiliates--an incorporated affiliate located in the country of
incorporation and an unincorporated affiliate (a branch) located
in the other country.
     There are two exceptions to these general rules.  First, if
a business enterprise incorporated in one foreign country has
physical assets or operations in more than one other foreign
country, an incorporated foreign affiliate is deemed to exist in
the country of incorporation, even though the enterprise may have
no physical assets or operations in that country.  Unincorporated
foreign affiliates (branches) are deemed to exist in the other
foreign countries.  In effect, the affiliate in the country of
incorporation is considered a holding company whose assets are
the equity it holds in the unincorporated affiliates in the other
countries.  Second, if a business enterprise incorporated abroad
by a U.S. person conducts its operations from, and has all of its
physical assets in, the United States, it is treated as an
incorporated foreign affiliate in the country of incorporation,
even though it has no operations or physical assets there.  This
treatment ensures that the foreign entity is reported to BEA.
     Balance of payments transactions between parents and
affiliates are recorded against the country of the affiliate with
which the U.S. parent had a direct transaction, even if the
transaction may reflect indirect claims on, liabilities to, or
income from indirectly held affiliates in third countries.  For
example, suppose that a U.S. parent company acquires all of the
equity of a German manufacturer for $100 million, channeling the
purchase through its holding-company affiliate in the
Netherlands.  Both the direct investment capital flow and the
direct investment position would be recorded against the
Netherlands, because that is the country of the affiliate with
which the U.S. parent had a direct transaction.  (By contrast,
the financial and operating data--such as employment and sales
data--of the newly acquired affiliate would be shown in Germany
because that is where the operations are located.)
     Transactions with third-country transactors involving a
given affiliate are classified in the affiliate's country of
location.  For example, suppose a U.S. parent purchases a
Japanese affiliate's capital stock from a French resident; the
resulting direct investment capital flow would be classified in
Japan because such flows change the U.S. direct investment
position in that country.  (However, the associated settlement
flows, which would be included in other capital accounts of the
U.S. international transactions accounts, would likely be
classified in France.)
     Unless otherwise specified, the designation "by country" in
a table title in this publication indicates that the data in the
table are disaggregated by country of foreign affiliate.  If a
different method of country disaggregation is used, it is
specified in the table title; for example, trade data could
be disaggregated either by country of affiliate or by country of
origin or destination.
     In table II.A1, selected data for all nonbank foreign
affiliates of nonbank U.S. parents are classified by country of
affiliate; each individual country in which U.S. direct
investment in 1994 was reported is shown separately and is
grouped by geographic area.  (Table III.A1 presents similar
information for majority-owned foreign affiliates.)  Primarily
because of confidentiality requirements, many countries could not
be shown separately in the other tables in this publication.
However, the individual countries included in a country group
shown in the other tables may be determined, and their relative
sizes assessed, by referring to table II.A1.
     In this publication, the "International" category consists
of affiliates that have operations spanning more than one country
and that are engaged in petroleum shipping, other water
transportation, or offshore oil and gas drilling.  Affiliates in
these industries that have operations entirely in one country are
classified in that specific country.  Thus, an affiliate engaged
in shipping goods among countries is classified in
"International," whereas one engaged in local coastal or inland
shipping is classified in the country along whose coast or on
whose waterways it is operating.  Similarly, an oil rig that was
moved from place to place during the year is classified in
"International," but one that was stationary for the entire year
is classified in the country where it was located.

Industry classification
     Each U.S. parent or foreign affiliate was classified by
industry on the basis of its sales (or of its total income, for
holding companies) in a three-stage procedure.  First, a given
U.S. parent or foreign affiliate was classified in the major
industry that accounted for the largest percentage of its
sales.
     Second, within the major industry, the U.S. parent or
foreign affiliate was classified in the two-digit industry in
which its sales were largest; a two-digit industry was defined to
consist of all three-digit subindustries that have the same first
two digits in their three-digit code.  Third, within its
two-digit industry, the U.S. parent or foreign affiliate was
classified in the three-digit subindustry in which its sales were
largest.  This procedure ensured that the U.S. parent or foreign
affiliate was not assigned to a three-digit subindustry outside
either its major industry or its two-digit industry.
     The following example illustrates the three-stage
classification procedure.  Suppose a parent's or an affiliate's
sales were distributed as follows:

                        Percentage of total sales

Indus-
try
code
     All industries ............................................... 100
     Manufacturing.................................................  55
35     Industrial machinery and equipment .........................  30
351      Engines and turbines .....................................   5
352      Farm and garden machinery ................................  10
353      Construction, mining, and materials handling machinery ...  15
36     Electronic and other electric equipment  ...................  25
367      Electronic components and accessories ....................  25
     Wholesale trade...............................................  45
50     Durable goods ..............................................  45
508      Machinery, equipment, and supplies .......................  45



Because 55 percent of the parent's or affiliate's sales were
classified in manufacturing and only 45 percent were classified
in wholesale trade, the parent's or affiliate's major industry is
manufacturing.  Within manufacturing, 30 percent of its sales
were accounted for by sales in two-digit industry 35 (industrial
machinery and equipment)(the sum of the percentages in 351, 352,
and 353), and 25 percent were in two-digit industry 36
(electronic and other electric equipment); therefore, the
parent's or affiliate's two-digit industry is 35.  Finally,
because its sales within industry 35 were largest in subindustry
353, the parent's or affiliate's three-digit subindustry is 353.
Thus, because of the three-stage classification procedure, the
parent or affiliate was assigned to subindustry 353, even though
its sales in that subindustry were smaller than its sales in
either subindustries 508 or 367.   Unless otherwise specified,
the designation "by industry" in the title of a table in this
publication indicates that the data in the table are
disaggregated by industry of foreign affiliate.  Exceptions to
this rule are specified in the table title; for example, in some
tables, affiliate data are disaggregated by industry of their
U.S. parent.
     The direct investment data are collected at the enterprise
level, and each enterprise is classified in a single industry on
the basis of its major activity.  In contrast, the Standard
Industrial Classification (SIC) is designed for classifying
individual establishments (or plants) within an enterprise.
Because many direct investment enterprises are active in several
industries, it is not meaningful to classify all their data in a
single industry if that industry is defined too narrowly.
Accordingly, BEA has limited the detail in which it classifies
U.S. parents and foreign affiliates by industry to a subset of
the detail that is available in the SIC system.
     In BEA's direct investment statistics, including those
presented in this publication, petroleum is presented as a "major
industry" that consolidates all the activities associated with
petroleum production, transportation, and distribution.
Consequently, these activities are excluded from the major
industries in which they would otherwise be included.  In
particular, manufacturing excludes petroleum and coal products
manufacturing, mining excludes oil and gas extraction, wholesale
trade excludes petroleum wholesale trade, retail trade excludes
gasoline service stations, and transportation excludes petroleum
tanker operations, pipelines, and storage.
     Beginning with the 1994 benchmark survey and reflecting a
change in the 1987 SIC, savings institutions and credit unions
are included in the industry "depository institutions," which
also includes banks.  Thus, the data for savings institutions and
credit unions appear in the tables for "bank parents and
affiliates" rather than in those for "nonbank parents and
affiliates."  Previously, these entities were classified as
"nonbank parents and affiliates" in the industry "finance, except
banking."  This change has no material effect on comparisons of
the data for 1993 and 1994, because in 1993, only one U.S. parent
was classified as a savings institution or a credit union.
     U.S. parents that are individuals, estates, or trusts were
classified in the industry "nonbusiness entities, except
government," which, in this publication, is treated as part of
the major industry "finance, insurance, and real estate."  This
industry is included in tables that disaggregate affiliate data
by industry of U.S. parent.  It is not included in tables
containing U.S.-parent data, because U.S. parents that were
individuals, estates, or trusts were not required to report
financial and operating data.
     Table II.A2 presents selected data for nonbank foreign
affiliates and nonbank U.S. parents classified by industry; each
three-digit subindustry except depository institutions is shown
separately and is grouped by the major industry to which it
belongs.  Table III.A2 presents similar data for majority-owned
nonbank affiliates.  Primarily because of confidentiality
requirements, many of the three-digit industry categories are not
shown in the other tables in this publication.  However, each
industry included, but not identified, in an industry group in
the other tables may be ascertained by referring to table II.A2
or III.A2.
     Each U.S. parent and foreign affiliate was classified in a
single industry, even though many parents and affiliates had
activities in more than one industry.  As a result, the
distribution of data by industry of U.S. parent or foreign
affiliate differs from the distribution that would result if each
activity of a parent or an affiliate was classified by industry.
In the benchmark survey, sales by U.S. parents and foreign
affiliates and employment by U.S. parents were classified by
activity.  Specifically, each U.S. parent was required to
distribute its sales and employment among the eight three-digit
subindustries in which its sales were largest and to distribute
the sales of each foreign affiliate among the five three-digit
subindustries in which the affiliate's sales were largest.
Unspecified sales and employment are shown in the "not specified
by industry" row or column in the tables that display data by
industry of sales.   Because a parent or affiliate that has an
establishment in an industry usually also has sales in that
industry, the distribution by industry of sales roughly
approximates the distribution that would result if the data were
reported and classified by industry of establishment.
     In table 6, U.S. parents' sales and employment disaggregated
by industry of sales are compared with their sales and employment
disaggregated by industry of parent, and foreign affiliates'
sales disaggregated by industry of sales are compared with their
sales disaggregated by industry of affiliate.  (For nonbank
parents of nonbank affiliates, data by industry of sales
cross-classified by industry of parent are shown in table II.Q2
for sales and table II.S2 for employment; for nonbank affiliates
of nonbank parents and for majority-owned nonbank affiliates of
nonbank parents, sales by industry of sales cross-classified by
industry of affiliate are shown in tables II.F24 and III.F24,
respectively.)
       Table 6.--Sales by All Foreign Affiliates and Sales by, and Employment of, All U.S. Parents, by Industry
                                        of Enterprise and by Industry of Sales
                                                                                                                       Affiliate data                           U.S. parent data
                                                                                                                    Sales (millions of dollars)               Sales (millions of dollars)               Number of employees (thousands)
                                                                                                                         By industry          By industry          By industry          By industry          By industry          By industry
                                                                                                                        of affiliate           of sales          of U.S. parent          of sales          of U.S. parent         of sales/1/
         All industries ............................................................................................           1,830,744            1,830,744            4,148,552            4,148,552             19,330.0             19,330.0

   Petroleum .......................................................................................................             294,223              285,400              368,949              327,322                510.3                365.5
     Oil and gas extraction ........................................................................................              51,310               50,284                8,832               13,084                 45.1                 59.2
       Crude petroleum extraction (no refining) and natural gas ....................................................              46,659               45,319                5,079                8,383                 11.5                 16.7
       Oil and gas field services ..................................................................................               4,651                4,965                3,753                4,701                 33.6                 42.5
     Petroleum and coal products ...................................................................................             108,691              106,097              272,270              213,673                396.1                216.6
       Integrated petroleum refining and extraction ................................................................              33,070               33,144              255,049              188,858                362.1                184.6
       Petroleum refining without extraction .......................................................................              73,395               70,704               15,092               19,822                 26.6                 13.6
       Petroleum and coal products, not elsewhere classified .......................................................               2,225                2,250                2,129                4,993                  7.4                 18.5
     Petroleum wholesale trade .....................................................................................             108,785              105,277               76,749               79,491                 41.4                 24.8
     Other .........................................................................................................              25,438               23,743               11,099               21,073                 27.7                 64.9
       Petroleum tanker operations ....................................................                                            4,107                4,253                  482                  721                  3.1                  7.5
       Petroleum and natural gas pipelines ................................................                                        1,450                1,995                   (D)              13,839                 24.2                 25.2
       Petroleum storage for hire ........................................................                                           671                  802                   (D)                 636                    .4                 2.6
       Gasoline service stations ..............................................................                                   19,210               16,693                    0                5,877                   0                  29.6

   Manufacturing ...................................................................................................             847,721              811,184            1,903,437            1,717,380              9,049.3              7,889.4

     Food and kindred products .....................................................................................             104,978              103,346              264,097              206,956              1,269.9                821.4
       Grain mill and bakery products ..............................................................................              23,724               23,731               53,820               49,489                276.8                173.4
         Grain mill products .............................................................                                        20,006               20,249               35,076               36,150                195.7                 83.2
         Bakery products ...................................................................                                       3,718                3,483               18,744               13,339                 81.1                 90.2
       Beverages ...................................................................................................              34,128               32,385               93,567               44,298                546.7                182.1
       Other .......................................................................................................              47,126               47,230              116,709              113,169                446.4                466.0
         Meat products ................................................................                                            3,182                4,197               72,205               32,681                246.1                158.2
         Dairy products .................................................................                                          4,531                5,050                8,104               13,550                 25.6                 42.0
         Preserved fruits and vegetables .....................................................                                     7,322                6,718               15,281               21,423                 82.1                 83.4
         Other food and kindred products ...........................................................                              32,091               31,266               21,120               45,515                 92.6                182.3

     Chemicals and allied products ..............................................................................                153,806              148,713              300,381              261,172              1,119.2                801.5
       Industrial chemicals and synthetics .........................................................................              62,286               59,407              118,997              110,100                427.8                307.9
       Drugs .......................................................................................................              40,039               39,673              100,097               68,345                392.2                242.4
       Soap, cleaners, and toilet goods ....................................................................                      31,395               27,703               48,547               33,683                170.1                100.2
       Agricultural chemicals ......................................................................................               4,303                5,511                7,009               13,949                 20.3                 36.3
       Chemical products, not elsewhere classified .................................................................              15,783               16,418               25,731               35,096                108.8                114.7

     Primary and fabricated metals .................................................................................              30,188               31,029              107,109              103,405                562.7                529.0
       Primary metal industries ....................................................................................              10,180               10,175               64,616               54,685                293.2                211.0
         Ferrous ...................................................................................................               1,919                1,808               27,925               30,120                121.2                117.1
         Nonferrous ................................................................................................               8,261                8,367               36,691               24,565                172.0                 93.9
       Fabricated metal products ...................................................................................              20,009               20,854               42,493               48,720                269.5                318.0
         Metal cans, forgings, and stampings ...........................................                                           6,791                6,893               16,385               13,188                 79.6                 56.2
         Cutlery, hand tools, and screw products ........................................                                          4,231                4,122                9,560                9,409                 63.1                 77.0
         Heating and plumbing equipment and structural metal products .....................                                        2,273                2,495                8,950                9,895                 67.0                 67.3
         Fabricated metal products not elsewhere classified, ordnance, and services ......                                         6,714                7,343                7,599               16,228                 59.8                117.5

     Industrial machinery and equipment.............................................................................             129,300              116,693              214,730              194,393              1,050.6                918.7
       Farm and garden machinery ..........................................................................                        4,874                5,470               16,882               13,566                 70.2                 51.9
       Construction, mining, and materials handling machinery ......................................................              13,511               13,391               27,390               24,550                130.6                116.1
       Computer and office equipment ...............................................................................              84,594               70,785              106,680               79,279                430.2                298.5
       Other .......................................................................................................              26,321               27,046               63,778               76,998                419.7                452.1
         Engines and turbines ...............................................................                                      5,506                6,094                8,468               23,293                 39.5                102.7
         Metalworking machinery ............................................................                                       2,103                2,094                7,356                6,325                 48.0                 40.5
         Special industry machinery ......................................................                                         3,798                3,955                6,727               10,012                 41.3                 55.9
         General industry machinery and equipment ........................................                                         6,843                6,818               19,747               15,941                143.5                121.6
         Refrigeration and service industry machinery ........................................                                     5,738                5,662               18,073               17,036                123.8                101.9
         Industrial machinery and equipment not elsewhere classified .....................                                         2,333                2,423                3,408                4,389                 23.5                 29.6

     Electronic and other electric equipment ................................................................                     73,308               73,259              199,241              173,555                946.3                967.6
       Household appliances ........................................................................................              10,715               10,344               14,375               19,302                 73.9                 96.0
       Household audio and video, and communications equipment ......................                                             15,259               15,243               27,958               54,137                113.5                268.8
       Electronic components and accessories ..........................................                                           35,955               35,707              102,743               62,028                407.5                336.5
       Electronic and other electric equipment, not elsewhere classified ................................                         11,378               11,964               54,165               38,088                351.3                266.3

     Transportation equipment ......................................................................................             206,848              189,477              424,137              357,502              1,615.9              1,318.3
       Motor vehicles and equipment ..................................................................                           202,518              184,653              309,635              257,698                957.3                768.9
       Other .......................................................................................................               4,329                4,825              114,502               99,804                658.6                549.4

     Other manufacturing ...........................................................................................             149,294              148,666              393,742              420,397              2,484.7              2,532.9
       Tobacco products ............................................................................................              15,481               15,481                8,921               24,688                 32.3                 49.6
       Textile products and apparel ................................................................................               9,113                9,261               32,378               38,896                325.2                386.8
         Textile mill products ..................................................................                                  3,029                3,138               16,740               16,860                159.3                159.2
         Apparel and other textile products ..................................................                                     6,084                6,123               15,638               22,037                166.0                227.6
       Lumber, wood, furniture, and fixtures ..........................................................                            9,023                9,058               36,633               38,720                225.0                230.2
         Lumber and wood products ............................................................                                     4,143                4,275               17,341               24,682                 72.8                121.7
         Furniture and fixtures ..............................................................                                     4,880                4,783               19,292               14,037                152.1                108.5
       Paper and allied products ...................................................................................              27,385               28,122               97,338               76,313                456.1                369.3
         Pulp, paper, and board mills ........................................................                                     8,511                8,051               36,612               32,566                152.4                147.8
         Other paper and allied products ........................................................                                 18,875               20,071               60,726               43,747                303.8                221.5
       Printing and publishing .....................................................................................               7,194                6,877               55,362               55,929                391.1                374.3
         Newspapers ..........................................................................                                       245                  240               17,061               16,341                122.4                134.0
         Miscellaneous publishing ............................................................                                     4,770                4,713               27,383               27,505                180.6                141.7
         Commercial printing and services ....................................................                                     2,179                1,925               10,918               12,082                 88.2                 98.6
       Rubber products .............................................................................................              12,132               11,530               26,033               22,706                152.1                135.2
       Miscellaneous plastics products ................................................................                           14,648               13,580               16,653               28,252                104.8                173.8
       Glass products ..............................................................................................               5,510                6,318               11,909               11,761                 81.7                 80.7
       Stone, clay, and nonmetallic mineral products ......................................                                        5,535                5,308               15,551               14,058                 85.4                 75.5
       Instruments and related products ..........................................................................                35,708               34,785               79,578               81,588                536.1                503.4
         Measuring, scientific, and optical instruments ......................................                                     5,124                5,885               36,562               33,284                274.8                237.3
         Medical instruments and supplies and ophthalmic goods ................................                                   12,213               13,133               21,758               32,382                145.7                204.3
         Photographic equipment and supplies ..................................................                                   18,371               15,767               21,258               15,922                115.5                 61.7
       Other .......................................................................................................               7,564                8,347               13,386               27,487                 95.0                154.1
         Leather and leather products ......................................................                                         548                  574                1,529                3,591                 12.0                 35.2
         Miscellaneous manufacturing industries .................................................                                  7,016                7,773               11,857               23,896                 83.0                118.9

   Wholesale trade .................................................................................................             310,932              323,800              263,717              329,332                491.2                577.0
     Durable goods .................................................................................................             194,748              202,491              152,346              173,879                247.7                316.4
       Motor vehicles and equipment ...........................................................                                   25,220               39,769               18,138               24,511                 35.4                 47.1
       Lumber and construction materials ......................................................                                    1,132                1,079                5,222                7,889                 11.5                  9.3
       Professional and commercial equipment and supplies ....................................                                    99,001               90,329               28,303               41,515                 56.5                 97.5
       Metals and minerals .....................................................................                                   3,955                4,264               47,229               28,861                 17.2                 12.2
       Electrical goods ....................................................................                                      31,704               33,023               34,562               34,429                 69.9                 62.6
       Hardware, plumbing, and heating equipment and supplies ............................                                         3,858                3,897                3,587                3,217                  9.7                  7.0
       Machinery, equipment and supplies, not elsewhere classified ..............................                                 19,502               19,446                6,565               17,588                 24.1                 41.9
       Durable goods, not elsewhere classified .............................................                                      10,375               10,683                8,741               15,871                 23.3                 38.7
     Nondurable goods ..............................................................................................             116,184              121,309              111,371              155,453                243.5                260.7
       Paper and paper products .............................................................                                      3,741                4,970               12,806               17,029                 33.6                 34.4
       Drugs, proprietaries, and sundries ....................................................                                    26,072               24,077               30,684               23,194                 55.3                 31.8
       Apparel, piece goods, and notions ....................................................                                      7,615                7,916                8,441               10,002                 28.8                 29.8
       Groceries and related products .........................................................                                   16,579               18,691               30,176               38,669                 79.9                 92.0
       Farm product raw materials ...............................................................                                 25,127               28,476               19,958               32,630                 17.6                 17.7
       Nondurable goods, not elsewhere classified .............................................                                   37,051               37,179                9,307               33,928                 28.2                 54.9

   Depository institutions .....................................................................                                  64,362               64,459              158,539              140,170                764.6                684.9
     Banks ....................................................................................                                       (D)              64,291              158,539              137,220                764.6                660.2
     Savings institutions and credit unions ..................................................                                        (D)                 169                    0                2,950                   0                  24.7

   Finance (except depository institutions), insurance, and real estate ............................                              98,997              102,268              471,207              552,232              1,098.5              1,200.5
     Finance, except depository institutions ..........................................................                           49,750               53,109              105,810              171,335                273.3                448.2
       Business franchising ................................................................                                         647                1,747                    0                4,123                   0                  14.3
       Other ..................................................................................                                   49,103               51,362              105,810              167,212                273.3                433.9
     Insurance .....................................................................................................              47,646               47,720              362,007              372,755                811.1                727.0
       Life insurance ........................................................................                                    17,359               16,811              126,299              124,420                221.9                187.8
       Accident and health insurance .........................................................                                     6,900                8,125                8,504               43,860                 17.3                101.6
       Other .................................................................................                                    23,387               22,784              227,204              204,475                571.9                437.5
     Real estate ...................................................................................................               1,393                1,438                3,387                8,142                 13.7                 24.5
     Holding companies .............................................................................................                 208                    0                    3                    0                    .4                   .7

   Services ........................................................................................................              86,230              109,610              171,243              252,146              2,116.8              2,658.7
     Hotels and other lodging places ........................................................................                      3,501                3,956               11,950               11,687                236.6                202.3
     Business services .............................................................................................              50,224               69,058               60,451              111,999                953.1              1,249.7
       Advertising .................................................................................................               6,497                6,434                4,735                7,591                 30.4                 37.7
       Equipment rental (except automotive and computers) ..............................                                           2,939                3,590                1,720                6,998                 12.5                 31.6
       Computer and data processing services .............................................                                        31,917               47,724               28,307               65,471                196.1                422.8
         Computer processing and data preparation services ..................................                                      4,596                4,815                   (D)              16,373                   K                 143.9
         Information retrieval services ......................................................                                       869                  875                   (D)               1,715                   H                   8.9
         Computer related services, not elsewhere classified ...............................                                      26,452               42,034               22,954               47,383                141.7                269.9
       Business services, not elsewhere classified .................................................................               8,871               11,311               25,690               31,939                714.0                757.6
         Services to buildings ..............................................................                                        234                  304                5,948                4,717                118.7                105.4
         Personnel supply services ..............................................................                                  4,048                4,081                9,270                9,038                360.7                361.3
         Other ....................................................................................                                4,589                6,926               10,472               18,184                234.6                291.0
     Automotive rental and leasing ............................................................................                    2,596                2,590                6,751                8,067                 65.6                 64.8
     Motion pictures, including television tape and film .............................                                             7,844                7,770               32,482               23,619                169.9                 91.6
     Health services ...............................................................................................                 554                  639               24,604               30,364                315.1                361.4
     Engineering, architectural, and surveying services ....................................................                       7,463                7,959                9,720               20,903                 73.7                144.7
     Management and public relations services ...........................................                                          5,243                5,306                7,768               10,971                 57.8                100.5
     Other .........................................................................................................               8,806               12,332               17,517               34,537                245.0                443.8
       Automotive parking, repair, and other services .........................................                                      121                  295                   (D)               2,878                   H                  43.4
       Miscellaneous repair services .........................................................                                     1,152                4,129                   (D)               4,904                   G                  36.7
       Amusement and recreation services .....................................................                                     1,791                1,585                2,627                6,841                 42.3                100.9
       Legal services ......................................................................                                         234                  248                2,178                2,295                 11.3                 12.4
       Educational services ................................................................                                         371                  365                  971                1,199                 17.1                 19.2
       Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services ........................................                                       478                  484                6,791                5,942                 76.1                 69.5
       Research, development, and testing services ..........................................                                      1,829                2,268                  647                4,617                  6.5                 60.8
       Other services provided on a commercial basis .........................................                                     2,831                2,959                3,896                5,860                 87.7                100.9

   Other industries ................................................................................................             128,279              131,073              811,459              793,060              5,299.4              5,546.9
     Agriculture, forestry, and fishing ............................................................................               2,827                3,060                4,433                7,526                 32.1                 48.4
       Agricultural production--crops ....................................................                                         1,695                1,781                3,236                4,638                 17.5                 19.7
       Agricultural production--livestock ....................................................                                       680                  798                   (D)               2,283                   I                  20.1
       Agricultural services ...................................................................                                      (D)                  91                   (D)                 280                   I                   6.7
       Forestry .............................................................................                                         (D)                 261                    0                   (D)                  0                    F
       Fishing, hunting, and trapping ..........................................................]                                    130                  130                    0                   (D)                  0                    G
     Mining ........................................................................................................              11,365               11,274               14,079               23,415                 57.6                116.4
       Metal mining ...........................................................................                                    8,105                7,974                7,774                6,680                 30.0                 29.3
         Iron ores ............................................................................                                       (D)                 805                   (D)                  (D)                  G                   5.2
         Copper, lead, zinc, gold, and silver ores ...........................................                                     6,195                6,065                7,336                5,636                 27.2                 21.2
         Other metallic ores .................................................................                                       966                  989                   (D)                 347                    .3                 1.9
         Metal mining services ................................................................                                       (D)                 114                   (D)                  (D)                  F                   1.0
       Nonmetallic minerals .................................................................                                      3,260                3,300                6,305               16,735                 27.6                 87.1
         Coal ...................................................................................                                  2,501                2,607                3,735               11,055                 16.4                 59.1
         Coal mining services ................................................................                                        (D)                  (D)                   0                    1                   0                    0
         Nonmetallic minerals, except fuels ..................................................                                        (D)                  (D)               2,570                   (D)                11.2                   K
         Nonmetallic minerals services, except fuels ......................................                                            4                    4                    0                   (D)                  0                    G
     Construction ..................................................................................................               8,881                8,987               33,676               28,924                179.6                157.5
     Transportation ................................................................................................              17,898               18,311              125,594              129,103                992.9                987.9
       Railroads ............................................................................                                        412                  374               28,046               20,518                161.3                120.2
       Water transportation .................................................................                                      3,836                3,926                6,348                9,155                 29.2                 41.7
       Transportation by air .................................................................                                        (D)                  (D)              48,399               46,892                330.0                322.2
       Pipelines, except petroleum and natural gas ...............................................                                   472                  472                    0                    0                   0                    0
       Passenger transportation arrangement .................................................                                         (D)                  (D)               5,335               10,586                 24.7                 24.9
       Transportation and related services, not elsewhere classified .......................                                       9,161                9,501               37,466               41,953                447.7                478.9
     Communication .............................................................................                                  21,377               21,292              235,928              196,958              1,055.6                805.2
       Telephone and telegraph communications ................................................                                    19,890               19,858              215,186              170,152                949.6                707.0
       Other communications services .......................................................                                       1,488                1,434               20,742               26,806                105.9                 98.2
     Electric, gas, and sanitary services ..................................................................                      16,791               16,850               94,996               94,262                304.2                295.2
     Retail trade ..................................................................................................              49,140               51,297              302,753              312,873              2,677.5              3,136.3
       General merchandise stores ...........................................................                                      8,183                8,344              173,002              149,805              1,362.2              1,312.1
       Food stores ............................................................................                                   11,602               11,555               41,191               42,442                318.2                326.6
       Apparel and accessory stores ........................................................                                       1,975                2,074               32,854               35,794                415.1                417.3
       Eating and drinking places ........................................................                                        11,170               10,302               13,323               28,325                269.6                702.9
       Retail trade, not elsewhere classified ...............................................                                     16,210               19,022               42,384               56,507                312.4                377.3

   Unspecified .....................................................................................................                   0                2,951                    0               36,909                   0                 407.1
     D Suppressed to avoid disclosure of data of individual companies.
     1. Bank parents, unlike nonbank parents, were not required to disaggregate their employment by industry of sales.
   The distribution of employment by industry of sales for bank parents was, therefore, estimated by multiplying each
   parent's total employment by the percentage of sales that were in each industry.
   NOTE.--Size ranges are given in employment cells that are suppressed.  The size ranges
   are A--1 to 499; F--500 to 999; G--1,000 to 2,499; H--2,500 to 4,999; I-5,000 to
   9,999; J--10,000 to 24,999; K--25,000 to 49,999; L--50,000 to 99,999; M--100,000 or more.


      For sales, differences between the distribution by industry
of enterprise and the distribution by industry of sales were much
larger for U.S. parents than for foreign affiliates, primarily
because U.S. parents are more diversified than their affiliates.
Their greater diversity partly reflects the much greater degree
of consolidation of U.S. parents.


          Estimation and General Validity of the Data
     A completed benchmark survey form was required for
affiliates that had total assets, sales, or net income (or
losses) greater than $3 million.  Either a long form or a short
form was required, depending on the size of the affiliate.
To present financial and operating data in the same detail for
all nonbank affiliates, BEA estimated the items that appeared
only on the long form for the affiliates that were reported on
the short form.  Estimates were also made for some affiliates
that failed to report on the benchmark survey but for which data
could be obtained from other direct investment surveys.
     The long form (BE-10B(LF))--which was filed by U.S. parents
for nonbank foreign affiliates with total assets, sales, or net
income (or loss) greater than $50 million--collected detailed
data.  The most detail was collected for majority-owned nonbank
affiliates.  The short form (BE-10B(SF))--which was filed by
nonbank U.S. parents for nonbank foreign affiliates with total
assets, sales, or net income (or losses) of $50 million or less
and by bank parents for their nonbank affiliates regardless of
size--collected most balance of payments items but only selected
financial and operating data items.  For a given short-form
affiliate, long-form items were generally estimated on the basis
of relationships among data items for the most comparable panel
of long-form affiliates that could be constructed; specifically,
the panel comprised affiliates that had total assets of between
$50 million and $250 million and that were in the same industry
group as the affiliate whose data were being estimated.
     A total of 13,557 nonbank affiliates of nonbank parents
filed short forms.  Although these affiliates accounted for 60.7
percent of all nonbank affiliates of nonbank parents, they
accounted for only a modest portion of the universe of nonbank
affiliates of nonbank parents in terms of value--8.0 percent of
total assets, 12.0 percent of sales, and 24.0 percent of
employment.
     BEA also made estimates of the data for some nonbank
affiliates that did not file a benchmark survey report even
though they met the criteria for filing.  For the 567 affiliates
covered by these estimates, BEA had a report in another direct
investment survey that served as a basis for estimation.  These
affiliates, most of which were small, accounted for only a minor
portion of the nonbank universe in terms of value--1.7 percent of
total assets, 1.6 percent of sales, and 3.2 percent of
employment.  The estimation of data for these affiliates ensured
that the 1994 data were as complete as possible.
     All data reported for U.S. parents and foreign affiliates
were required to pass a number of computerized edit checks.
Where possible, the data for a parent or an affiliate were
reviewed for their consistency with related data for the parent
or affiliate from other parts of the report form, with data
provided in related report forms, with comparable data reported
by other parents or affiliates, and with comparable data from
outside sources.  As a result of this edit and review process, a
number of changes to the reported data were made, often after
consultation with survey respondents.  In some cases, usually
involving small parents and affiliates, estimates based on
industry averages or on other information were substituted for
missing or erroneously reported data.
     For some data items--such as those pertaining to trade by
product and by country of destination and origin--survey
respondents had difficulty in supplying the required information
because the data were not easily accessible or were unavailable
from their standard accounting records.  In these cases,
respondents often made estimates, the quality of which is
difficult to assess.

         Number of U.S. Parents and Foreign Affiliates
     Table 7 shows the number of parents and affiliates covered
by the 1994 benchmark survey.  Table II.A2 shows the number of
nonbank foreign affiliates by country, and table III.A2 shows the
number of nonbank U.S. parents and nonbank foreign affiliates by
industry.  The counts of nonbank parents and affiliates are
comparable with the counts shown in the previous annual survey
publications.
     The counts of parents and affiliates should be used
cautiously because with the exception of those shown in table 2,
they exclude the numerous very small affiliates (and parents of
only very small affiliates) that were exempt from filing a
benchmark survey report.  In addition, some parents and
affiliates that were required to file a report did not do so.
Because of limited resources, BEA's efforts to ensure compliance
with reporting requirements focused mainly on large parents and
affiliates.  As a result, some of the parents of small affiliates
that were not aware of the reporting requirements and that were
not on BEA's mailing list may not have filed reports.  The
omission of these parents and their affiliates from the benchmark
survey results probably has not significantly affected the
aggregate value of the various data items collected, but it could
have caused an unknown, but possibly significant, understatement
of the number of parents or affiliates.
     Even an exact count of parents or affiliates would be
difficult to interpret because each report covers a consolidated
business enterprise.  The number of consolidated business
enterprises varies according to the degree of consolidation used
and the differences in the organizational structure of the
companies.


      Financial and Operating Data for Foreign Affiliates
                        and U.S. Parents

     Financial and operating data focus on the overall operations
of U.S. parents and their affiliates.  Among the items covered by
these data are the following: Balance sheets and income
statements; gross product; sales of goods and services; external
financial position; taxes; property, plant, and equipment;
employment and compensation of employees; U.S. trade in goods;
and research and development expenditures.  Only a few of these
items were obtained for bank parents and affiliates;
consequently, most of the tables that present financial and
operating data cover only nonbank parents and affiliates.
     The financial and operating data for foreign affiliates are
not adjusted for the ownership share of the U.S. parents.  Thus,
for example, the employment data include all employees of each
affiliate, including affiliates in which the U.S. parent's
ownership share is less than 100 percent.  To help address issues
for which control is relevant, many tables cover only
majority-owned foreign affiliates.
     Most of the concepts and definitions used in reporting the
financial and operating data can be found on the BE-10 forms or
in the Instruction Booklet to the forms, all of which are
reproduced in the appendix.  The following discussion focuses on
the concepts, definitions, and statistical issues that require
further explanation or that are not covered in either the forms
or the Instruction Booklet.

Gross product

     Gross product measures the contributions of foreign
affiliates to the gross domestic product (GDP) of foreign
countries and the contribution of U.S. parents to U.S. GDP.
Often referred to as "value added," gross product can be measured
as gross output (sales or receipts and other operating income
plus inventory change) minus intermediate inputs (purchased goods
and services).  Alternatively, it can be measured as the sum of
the costs incurred (except for intermediate inputs) and the
profits earned in production.  The estimates presented in this
publication for U.S. parents and majority-owned foreign
affiliates were calculated as the sum of costs and profits.
     Estimates of gross product rather than sales or other
measures are generally preferred in assessing the impact of
parents or affiliates on the entire host economy as well as on
individual industries.  Using gross product permits a more
focused analysis of the economic impact of parents and affiliates
because it measures only the parents' and affiliates' own
production, whereas sales do not distinguish between internal
production and production originating elsewhere.  In addition,
gross product measures the value added to the economy during a
specific period.  In contrast, some sales in a given period may
represent production from earlier periods.
     The measure of profits from current production used to
compute gross product is profit-type return.  Unlike the net
income item in the income statement, profit-type return measures
profits before income taxes, and it excludes nonoperating items
(such as special charges and capital gains and losses) and income
from equity investments.  Tables included in this publication
show profit-type return of majority-owned foreign affiliates by
detailed country and industry.

External financial position
     The 1994 benchmark survey was the first BEA survey to
collect data on the external financial position of U.S. parent
companies.  These new data for parents are similar to the data
collected for majority-owned foreign affiliates in the 1994 and
previous benchmark surveys and in BEA's annual surveys of U.S.
direct investment abroad.  For parents, the benchmark survey
obtained a breakdown of most financial-asset and liability
positions with affiliated and unaffiliated persons and with U.S.
or foreign persons.  For affiliates, a similar breakdown was
collected for current liabilities and long-term debt, owners'
equity, and receivables and financial investments.
     These new data for U.S. parents provide a more complete
picture of the parents' international commercial and financial
activities than had been available.  In past benchmark surveys,
detail on U.S. parents' transactions with unaffiliated foreigners
had been limited to trade in goods, sales of goods and services,
and receipts and payments of fees and royalties.  The new data
fill a gap by providing information on parents' financial
relationships--asset and liability positions--with unaffiliated
foreigners.  They also permit better integration of the data for
U.S. parents in the international accounts with the data on
financial and commercial claims and liabilities of all U.S.
companies collected by the Treasury Department.


Sales of goods and services

For U.S. parents and majority-owned foreign affiliates, the 1994
benchmark survey collected data on sales (or gross operating
revenues) that were disaggregated into goods, services, and
investment income and by type of customer--by affiliated and
unaffiliated parties--and by destination--sales to the United
States, local sales, and sales to other foreign countries.
     As a general rule, sales of goods are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of establishments
in the following major industries:  Agriculture (except
agricultural services), forestry, and fishing; mining  (except
mining services); petroleum (except petroleum services);
construction; manufacturing; and wholesale and retail trade.
However, a parent or an affiliate that is not classified in one
of these industries may have sales of goods.
     As a general rule, sales of services are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of establishments
in the following industries:  The "services" division of the
Standard Industrial Classification (and the International Surveys
Industry Classification) system; petroleum services; finance,
insurance, and real estate; agricultural services; mining
services; transportation; communication; and public utilities.
However, a parent or an affiliate that is not classified in one
of these industries may have sales of services.
     One exception to these rules occurs when goods are among the
products of services industries or services are among the
products of goods industries.  For example, sales of
mass-produced prepackaged computer software are recorded as sales
of goods even if the software is sold directly by a software
producer (classified in a services industry).  Similarly, sales
of structures are sales of goods regardless of whether they are
sold by a company in a goods industry (such as a construction
firm) or by a company in a services industry (such as a real
estate firm).
     Another exception is that finance and insurance companies
that include investment income in total sales (or gross operating
revenues) reported such income as investment income rather than
as sales of services.  In most other industries, companies
generally consider investment income an incidental revenue source
and include it in the income statement in a separate "other
income" category rather than in sales.
     When a sale consisted of both goods and services and the two
components could not be unbundled, because for example, the goods
and services were not separately billed, the total sale was
classified as a good or as a service on the basis of whether the
good or the service accounted for the most value.

Employment and compensation of employees

     In the benchmark survey, data on employment and compensation
of employees were collected for U.S. parents and foreign
affiliates.  For U.S. parents and majority-owned foreign
affiliates, data were also collected on the number of employees
engaged in research and development activities and on the
components of compensation of employees--wages and salaries and
employee benefits.  For majority-owned foreign affiliates in
manufacturing, data were also collected on the number of
production workers and on the compensation of, and hours worked
by, those workers.
     Survey respondents were asked to report employment as the
number of full-time and part-time employees on the payroll at the
end of fiscal year 1994.  However, a count taken during the year
was accepted if it was a reasonable proxy for the end-of-year
number.  In addition, if employment at the end of the year was
unusually high or low because of temporary factors, such as
seasonal variations or a strike, a number reflecting normal
operations was requested.
     Employment by U.S. parents is classified both by industry of
parent and by industry of sales.  The classification by industry
of sales is based on information supplied by each U.S. parent on
employment in the individual three-digit industries in which it
had sales.
     Employment by foreign affiliates is classified both by
industry of affiliate and by industry of U.S. parent.  It is not
classified by industry of sales because the necessary data were
not collected.  (Earlier surveys had indicated that most
affiliates had employment in only one three-digit industry.)
     Worker compensation rates were not directly collected in the
benchmark survey, but the data needed to derive hourly
compensation of production workers of majority-owned foreign
affiliates in manufacturing were collected.  Such data were
collected only for production workers because data on hours
worked by nonproduction workers are generally not maintained by
survey respondents and because data on aggregate hourly
compensation and wage rates for the United States and foreign
countries that might be comparable with the benchmark survey data
are limited to data for production workers.
     Data that could be used to compute compensation per employee
and wages and salaries per employee of U.S. parents and foreign
affiliates also were collected.  However, the computed rates may
not accurately reflect the compensation rates normally paid by
parents and affiliates (and, thus, are not shown in this
publication).  The computed rates may be distorted by the
inclusion of part-time employment, because a part-time employee
is counted the same as a full-time employee, or they may be
distorted by data that cover only part of the year--for example,
data for a parent or affiliate that was newly established during
the year.

U.S. trade in goods

In the benchmark survey, data were collected on several aspects
of the U.S. trade in goods of U.S. parents and foreign
affiliates.  For U.S. parents, data were collected by country of
destination or origin, by affiliation (that is, whether or not
the trade was with affiliated parties), and by product.  For all
foreign affiliates, data were collected by affiliation.  For
majority-owned foreign affiliates, data were also collected by
product and, for exports, by intended use.
     The concepts and definitions underlying the data collected
on trade in goods are nearly identical to those used for the data
on total U.S. trade in goods compiled by the Census Bureau.
However, because of certain reporting problems, the 1994
benchmark survey data are not completely comparable with the
Census Bureau trade data.  In the benchmark survey, U.S. trade in
goods data were requested on a "shipped" basis--that is, on the
basis of when, where, and to (or by) whom the goods were
shipped--in order for them to be comparable with the data on
total U.S. trade.  However, most survey respondents keep their
accounting records on a "charged" basis--that is, on the basis of
when, where, and to (or by) whom the goods were charged.  The two
bases are usually the same, but differences between them can be
substantial.
     On the basis of its review, BEA believes most data were
reported on a shipped basis rather than on a charged basis.
However, some survey respondents had difficulty obtaining data on
a shipped basis, which usually required using shipping department
invoices rather than accounting records.  If BEA determined that
the data were reported on a charged basis and that these data
were likely to differ materially from data reported on a shipped
basis, it required revised reports to be filed.  However, some
cases of erroneous reporting were probably not identified.
     Additional differences between the BEA trade data and those
of the Census Bureau may have resulted simply because the data
come from two different sources:  The BEA data are based on
company records, whereas those of the Census Bureau are compiled
from export and import documents filed by the shipper with the
U.S. Customs Service on individual transactions.  The timing,
valuation, origin or destination, shipper, and product involved
in a given export or import transaction may be recorded
differently on company records than on customs export and import
documents.
     In the 1994 benchmark survey, exports and imports of U.S.
parents and majority-owned foreign affiliates are disaggregated
into 12 product categories on the basis of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 2 (United Nations
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34, New York: United Nations,
1975).  (See pages 21-24 in the Guide to Industry and Foreign
Trade Classifications for International Surveys in the appendix
for a description of the categories used.)  U.S. exports of goods
shipped to majority-owned foreign affiliates were also
disaggregated by intended use into three categories: Capital
equipment, goods for further manufacture, and goods for resale
without further manufacture.
     Total trade of a given U.S. parent with all of its foreign
affiliates combined was reported on the parent survey form
(BE-10A), and trade of a foreign affiliate with its U.S. parent
was reported on the affiliate survey form (BE-10B).  However, the
total trade of a U.S. parent with all of its affiliates combined
may not equal the sum of the trade with the U.S. parent that was
reported for the affiliates, because of differences in timing and
valuation and because the parent's survey form may include data
for affiliates that are exempt from being reported on the
affiliates' survey forms.


Research and development
     The 1994 benchmark survey collected data on two
technology-related items--research and development (R&D)
expenditures and the number of employees engaged in R&D-related
activities--for U.S. parents and majority-owned foreign
affiliates.  R&D includes basic and applied research in science
and engineering and design and development of prototypes and
processes.
     The data on R&D expenditures were collected on two bases:
R&D that is performed by the parent or affiliate (whether the R&D
was for its own use or for use by others) and R&D that is funded
by the parent or affiliate (whether the R&D was performed
internally or by others).  R&D on the performance basis is
consistent with the data on R&D performed by all U.S. companies
that are compiled by the National Science Foundation.  R&D on the
funding basis is consistent with guidelines of the Financial
Accounting Standards Board for accounting for the costs of R&D.
Both R&D measures provide some indication of the production or
use of technology by parents and affiliates; however, the
connection between R&D activity and technology is imprecise.

    Direct Investment Position and Balance of Payments Data

     Direct investment position and direct investment balance of
payments data measure the value of U.S. parents' investment
positions in, and the value of their transactions with, their
foreign affiliates.  In contrast, the financial and operating
data of parents and affiliates, discussed earlier, provide
measures of the overall operations of parents and affiliates,
including their transactions and investment positions with
persons outside of the U.S. multinational company.  For example,
the U.S. direct investment position in a foreign affiliate is
equal to its U.S. parents' equity in, and net outstanding loans
to, the affiliate; in contrast, a foreign affiliate's total
assets are equal to the sum of (1) the total owners' equity in
the affiliate that is held by its U.S. parents and by all other
persons and (2) the total liabilities owed by the affiliate to
its U.S. parents and to all other persons.
     For U.S. direct investment abroad, the following major items
appear in the U.S. international transactions accounts:
     o Direct investment capital outflows,
     o Direct investment income,
     o Direct investment royalties and license fees, and
     o Other direct investment services.
     Two adjustments are made to the data before they are entered
into the U.S. international accounts and the national income and
product accounts, but these adjustments are made only at the
global level; the data required to make them for countries and
industries are not available.  The data from the benchmark survey
are adjusted from a fiscal year basis to a calendar year basis.
     In addition, income and capital outflows are adjusted to
ensure that depreciation charges reflect current-period prices
and to more closely align income earned in a given period with
charges against income in the same period, as required by
economic accounting principles.  The adjustment is accomplished
in a three-step process.  First, a capital consumption adjustment
is made to convert depreciation charges from a historical-cost
basis to a current- or replacement-cost basis.  Second, earnings
are raised by the amount of the charges for depletion of natural
resources, because these charges are not treated as production
costs in the national income and product accounts.  Third,
expenses for mineral exploration and development are reallocated
across periods to ensure that they are written off over their
economic lives rather than all at once.
     The adjusted data for 1994 will be extrapolated forward to
derive universe estimates for calendar years after 1994 on the
basis of sample data collected in BEA's quarterly surveys for
those years.  BEA is evaluating the need to revise previously
published data for 1990-93 to incorporate information obtained in
the 1994 benchmark survey.
     Two changes, discussed in more detail below, have been
introduced to make BEA's data more consistent with the
international standards recommended in the International Monetary
Fund's Balance of Payments Manual and in the United Nations'
System of National Accounts.  First, intercompany debt
transactions and positions and associated interest transactions
with affiliates that are financial intermediaries other than
depository institutions are excluded from direct investment in
accordance with the methodology used for depository institutions
(see the discussion in the section "U.S. direct investment
position abroad").  Second, data on intercompany service charges
are disaggregated by type of service (see the discussion in the
section "Other direct investment services").

U.S. direct investment position abroad

     The U.S. direct investment position abroad at historical
cost is equal to the net book value of U.S. parents' equity in,
and net outstanding loans to, their foreign affiliates.  The
position may be viewed as the U.S. parents' contributions to the
total assets of their foreign affiliates or as the financing
provided in the form of equity or debt by U.S. parents to their
foreign affiliates.  The data are derived from the accounting
records of the foreign affiliates at yearend.
     The direct investment position data in this publication are
valued at historical cost and are not adjusted to current value.
Thus, they largely reflect prices at the time of investment
rather than prices of the current period.  Because historical
cost is the basis used for valuation in company accounting
records in the United States, it is the only basis on which
companies can report data in BEA's direct investment surveys.  It
is also the only basis on which detailed estimates of the
position are available by country, by industry, and by account.
However, BEA does provide aggregate estimates of the position
valued on two current-period-price bases--current cost and market
value.  The direct investment position at current cost
revalues that portion of the position that represents U.S.
parents' claims on the tangible assets of foreign affiliates
(such as plant, equipment, and inventories), using price indexes
appropriate to each of a few broad asset classes.  The direct
investment position at market value revalues both the tangible
assets and the intangible assets on which U.S. parents have
claims, using aggregate stock price indexes for foreign
countries.
     U.S. parents' equity in incorporated foreign affiliates can
be broken down into U.S. parents' holdings of capital stock in,
and other capital contributions to, their affiliates and U.S.
parents' equity in the retained earnings of their affiliates.
Capital stock includes all stock of affiliates, whether the stock
is common or preferred or is voting or nonvoting.  Other capital
contributions by U.S. parents, also referred to as the "U.S.
parents' equity in additional paid-in capital," consist of
invested or contributed capital that is not included in
capital stock; these contributions include the amount paid for
stock in excess of its par or stated value, the capitalization of
intercompany accounts (conversions of debt to equity) that do not
result in the issuance of capital stock, and donations.  U.S.
parents' equity in retained earnings is the U.S. parents' shares
of the cumulative undistributed earnings of their incorporated
foreign affiliates.
     Although the owners' equity of some unincorporated
affiliates could not be disaggregated by type, the data on U.S.
parents' equity in affiliates by type cover both incorporated and
unincorporated affiliates.  For unincorporated affiliates for
which no breakdown of owners' equity by type was available, the
parents' total equity was included in capital stock.  The U.S.
parents' share in total owners' equity (not broken down by type)
is shown for incorporated affiliates and for unincorporated
affiliates in addenda to the tables.
     U.S. parents' net outstanding loans to their foreign
affiliates, also referred to as "foreign affiliates' net
intercompany debt payables to U.S. parents," consist of trade
accounts and trade notes payable, other current liabilities, and
long-term debt that is owed by the affiliates to their U.S.
parents and that is net of similar items due to the affiliates
from their U.S. parents.
     Intercompany debt includes the value of capital leases and
of operating leases of more than 1 year between U.S. parents and
their foreign affiliates.  The value of property leased to a
foreign affiliate by its U.S. parent is included in affiliates'
payables, and the value of property leased by a foreign affiliate
to its U.S. parent is included in affiliates' receivables.
     For affiliates that are depository institutions or other
financial intermediaries, certain types of funding received from,
or provided to, their parents are excluded from direct investment
in accordance with international guidelines.  For affiliates that
are depository institutions, the direct investment position is
defined to include only their U.S. parents' permanent equity and
debt investment in them; similarly, the direct investment flows
that enter the U.S. international transactions accounts for these
affiliates include only the transactions related to such
permanent investment.  All other transactions and
positions--mainly claims and liabilities arising from the
parents' and affiliates' normal banking business, which are
reported to the U.S. Treasury Department rather than to BEA, are
excluded from the direct investment accounts, but they are
included with other banking claims and liabilities in the
portfolio investment accounts.
     Beginning with the 1994 benchmark survey, a similar
treatment has been adopted for affiliates that were financial
intermediaries other than depository institutions: The direct
investment position in, and capital and income flows with, these
affiliates are defined to include only the U.S. parents'
permanent investment in them.  Other U.S.-parent positions in,
and flows with, these affiliates--positions and flows associated
with the affiliates' intermediation activity--are included in the
portfolio investment accounts.  This change was made in order to
make BEA's data more consistent with the international standards
recommended in the International Monetary Fund's Balance of
Payments Manual.
     The industrial classification system used in the 1994
benchmark survey separately classified depository institutions,
but it did not provide a separate classification for other
financial intermediaries.  Instead, financial intermediaries and
other nonbank financial affiliates are classified in the "other
finance" industry (international surveys industry code 612 in the
Guide).  A review of the affiliates in that industry identified
three groups of affiliates that have characteristics of financial
intermediaries: (1) Those located in the Netherlands Antilles,
(2) those whose parents were depository institutions, and (3)
those whose parents were securities dealers.
     The Netherlands Antilles affiliates were identified as
financial intermediaries because according to international
guidelines, financial intermediaries include affiliates set up
abroad to raise and channel funds to their U.S. parent companies.
Such affiliates are part of a broader category referred to as
special purpose entities (SPE's), which "are enterprises that
engage primarily in international transactions and do little or
no local business."  Until mid-1984, U.S. parents were
prompted to borrow indirectly through nonbank financial
affiliates in the Netherlands Antilles rather than directly from
foreign capital markets, because the interest payments on their
borrowings from affiliates were exempt from U.S. withholding
taxes under a tax treaty between the United States and the
Netherlands Antilles.  The repeal of the withholding tax in 1984
caused most borrowing from these affiliates to cease and the
repayment of previous borrowings to increase, but some U.S.
parents continue to borrow indirectly through their nonbank
financial affiliates in the Netherlands Antilles.
     As a practical matter, permanent investment in affiliates
that are financial intermediaries other than depository
institutions has been defined to be equivalent to the parents'
equity investment in the affiliates.  Thus, intercompany debt
positions in these affiliates are excluded from the direct
investment position; changes in these positions are excluded from
direct investment capital flows; and interest payments and
receipts are excluded from direct investment income.  This
treatment was necessary because data were not collected
separately on the parents' permanent investment in these
affiliates.
     A U.S. parent and its foreign affiliate may have a two-way
financial relationship--that is, each may have debt and equity
investment in the other.  Thus, a U.S. parent may have investment
in a foreign affiliate that, in turn, has investment in the U.S.
parent as a result of the affiliate's lending funds to, or
acquiring voting securities or other equity interest in, the U.S.
parent.  In the intercompany debt portion of the position,
affiliates' receivables from their U.S. parents (reverse debt
investment) are netted against affiliates' payables to their U.S.
parents.  Reverse equity investment by foreign affiliates in
their U.S. parents is included in foreign portfolio investment in
the United States if the affiliate's ownership is less than 10
percent, or it is included in the foreign direct investment
position in the United States if the affiliate's ownership of its
U.S. parent is 10 percent or more.
     The direct investment position at the end of the year is
equal to the position at the end of the previous year plus the
change in the position during the year.  The change during the
year is the sum of direct investment capital flows (see the next
section) and valuation adjustments.  Valuation adjustments are
broadly defined to include all changes in the position other than
capital flows.  They primarily reflect differences between
transactions values, which are used to record direct investment
capital flows, and the book values on foreign affiliates'
accounting records, which are used to record the position and,
therefore, changes in the position.  For example, valuation
adjustments include differences between the sale value and book
value of foreign affiliates that are sold by U.S. parents.
Valuation adjustments also include capital gains and losses and
currency-translation adjustments.  Currency-translation
adjustments to the position are made to reflect changes in the
exchange rates that are used to translate foreign affiliates'
foreign-currency-denominated assets and liabilities into dollars,
according to the guidelines in FASB 52 (see the section "Currency
translation").

Direct investment capital outflows

     Direct investment capital outflows consist of equity capital
outflows, reinvested earnings, and intercompany debt outflows.
This section first defines these components and then discusses
the coverage, measurement, and presentation of direct investment
capital outflows.
     Equity capital outflows.--Equity capital outflows are net
increases in U.S. parents' equity in their foreign affiliates;
equity capital inflows (decreases in equity) are netted against
equity capital outflows (increases in equity) to derive the net
outflow.  Equity capital outflows exclude changes in equity that
result from the reinvestment of earnings, which are recorded as a
separate component of direct investment capital outflows.
     Equity capital outflows to foreign affiliates result from
U.S. parents' establishment of new foreign affiliates, from their
initial acquisitions of 10-percent-or-more ownership interests in
existing foreign business enterprises, from their acquisitions of
additional ownership interests in existing foreign affiliates,
and from capital contributions to their foreign affiliates.
     Equity capital inflows result from liquidations of foreign
affiliates, from partial or total sales of ownership interests in
foreign affiliates, and from the return of capital contributions.
Equity capital inflows also include liquidating dividends, which
are a return of capital to U.S. parents.
     Equity capital outflows are recorded at transactions values
on the basis of the accounting records of the U.S. parents rather
than on the basis of the accounting records of the affiliates.
The data are based on the accounting records of the parent partly
because some transactions--such as when a U.S. parent purchases
or sells capital stock from or to an unaffiliated third
party--are not recorded in the accounting records of the foreign
affiliates.  In addition, the transactions values that are
required for balance of payments accounting are sometimes
available only from the parent's accounting records; for example,
the equity capital of a foreign affiliates that is newly acquired
or sold by its U.S. parent is carried at book value in the
accounting records of the foreign affiliate, but it is carried at
transaction value--including any premium or discount--in the
accounting records of the U.S. parent.
     Reinvested earnings.--Reinvested earnings of foreign
affiliates are earnings less distributed earnings.  Earnings are
U.S. parents' shares in the net income of their foreign
affiliates after the provision for foreign income taxes.
Earnings are from the accounting records of the foreign
affiliate.  A U.S. parent's share in net income is based on its
directly held equity interest in the foreign affiliate.  The
earnings and reinvested earnings estimates in this publication
are not adjusted to reflect current-period prices, because the
source data needed to adjust the estimates by detailed country
and industry are not available.
     Earnings are a part of the direct investment income account
because they are income to the U.S. parent, whether they are
reinvested in the affiliate or remitted to the parent.  However,
because reinvested earnings are not actually transferred to the
U.S. parent, they increase the parent's investment in its
affiliate.  Thus, an entry equal to the value of reinvested
earnings is made in the direct investment income account, and a
similar entry, but with the opposite sign, is made in the direct
investment capital account.
     For incorporated foreign affiliates, distributed earnings
are dividends on common and preferred stock of the affiliates
that are held by their U.S. parents before the deduction of
foreign withholding taxes.  Distributions can be paid out of
current or past earnings.  Dividends exclude stock and
liquidating dividends.  Stock dividends are excluded because they
are a capitalization of retained earnings--a substitution of one
type of equity (capital stock) for another (retained earnings);
they reduce the amount of retained earnings available for
distribution but leave total owners' equity unchanged.  Thus,
stock dividends do not give rise to entries in the international
transactions accounts.  Liquidating dividends are excluded
because they are a return of capital rather than a remittance of
earnings (liquidating dividends are included instead as inflows
in the direct investment equity capital account).  For
unincorporated affiliates, distributed earnings are earnings
distributed to U.S. parents out of current or past earnings.
     Distributed earnings are based on the accounting records of
U.S. parents.  Because they are on an accrual basis, they are
reported as of the date that they are either received from
foreign affiliates or entered into intercompany accounts with
foreign affiliates.  Thus, for example, a dividend declared by a
foreign affiliate, but not remitted because of exchange controls,
would be recorded in the direct investment capital account as a
distributed earnings inflow when the dividend is entered into
intercompany accounts; an offsetting intercompany debt outflow
would be recorded at the same time.  Distributed earnings are
included whether they are paid in cash, through debt creation, or
in kind.
     Intercompany debt outflows.--Intercompany debt outflows
consist of the increase in U.S. parents' net intercompany debt
receivables from their foreign affiliates during the year, as
they are recorded in the financial records of the U.S.
parents.  The increase for a given period is derived by
subtracting the net outstanding intercompany debt balance (that
is, U.S.-parent receivables less U.S.-parent payables) at the end
of the previous period from the net outstanding balance at the
end of the current period.
     When a U.S. parent lends funds to its foreign affiliate, the
balance of the U.S. parents' receivables (amounts due) from the
affiliate increase; subsequently, when the affiliate repays the
principal owed to its U.S. parent, the balance of the U.S.
parent's receivables from the affiliate is reduced.  Similarly,
when a U.S. parent borrows funds from its foreign affiliate, the
balance of the U.S. parent's payables (amounts owed) to the
affiliate increase; subsequently, when the U.S. parent repays the
principal owed to its affiliate, the balance of the U.S. parent's
payables to the affiliate are reduced.
     Increases in U.S. parents' receivables from, or reductions
in parents' payables to, their foreign affiliates result in
outflows on intercompany debt accounts.  Reductions in U.S.
parents' receivables from, or increases in U.S. parents' payables
to, their affiliates result in inflows on intercompany debt
accounts.
     Not all intercompany debt transactions reflect actual flows
of funds.  For example, when distributed earnings, interest, or
royalties and license fees from a foreign affiliate accrue to its
U.S. parent, the full amount is included as an income or royalty
and license fee receipt (an inflow) on U.S. direct investment
abroad.  If all or part of that amount is not actually
transferred to the U.S. parent, the amount not transferred is
entered into intercompany debt as an increase in the U.S.
parent's receivables from its affiliate (an outflow).
     The net change in intercompany debt includes changes in the
value of capital leases and operating leases of more than 1 year
between U.S. parents and their foreign affiliates.  When property
is leased by a foreign affiliate from its U.S. parent, the value
of the leased property is recorded as an intercompany debt
outflow because it increases the U.S. parent's receivables.  The
subsequent payment of principal on a capital lease or of
depreciation on an operating lease is a return of capital and is
recorded as an intercompany debt inflow because it reduces the
U.S. parent's receivables.  When property is leased to a U.S.
parent by its foreign affiliate, the flows recorded are the
reverse of the preceding.
     Coverage, measurement, and presentation.--All intercompany
debt flows result from transactions between U.S. parents and
their foreign affiliates.  Equity capital flows, however, may
result from transactions between U.S. parents and either their
foreign affiliates or unaffiliated foreign persons.  An example
of an equity capital flow resulting from a transaction between a
U.S. parent and an unaffiliated foreign person is the parent's
purchase of an affiliate's capital stock from such a person.
     Direct investment capital outflows exclude transactions
between two U.S. persons because transactions between U.S.
persons are not international transactions.  Thus, if one U.S.
person purchases a direct investment interest in a foreign
affiliate from another U.S. person, the new owner will establish
or increase its ownership interest in the foreign affiliate, but
no equity capital outflow is recorded, because the transaction
occurs entirely within the United States.  In addition, there is
no net increase in U.S. claims on foreign countries; instead, one
U.S. person's claims have merely been substituted for those of
another.
     However, if a U.S. person has a portfolio
(less-than-10-percent) investment interest and if, as a result of
the purchase of an additional interest, the combined interests
qualify as a direct investment, a direct investment capital
outflow and offsetting portfolio investment capital inflow are
recorded to change the status of the original investment.
Similarly, if a U.S. parent's interest in an affiliate falls
below 10 percent, a direct investment capital inflow is recorded
to eliminate the direct investment interest, and an offsetting
portfolio investment capital outflow is recorded for the new
portfolio interest.
     In cases of reverse investment, treatment of reverse equity
capital and intercompany debt flows is the same as that for the
analogous accounts in the direct investment position (see the
section "U.S. direct investment position abroad").
     Equity capital and intercompany debt outflows are
disaggregated into several subaccounts in this publication.
Equity capital outflows, which are recorded as a net amount, are
disaggregated to show increases in equity separately from
decreases.  Intercompany debt outflows are disaggregated to show
flows resulting from changes in U.S. parents' receivables
separately from flows resulting from changes in U.S. parents'
payables.  Certain transactions may affect two of these
subaccounts simultaneously and by exactly offsetting amounts.
Such transactions are "grossed up"; that is, the outflows and the
offsetting inflows are recorded in the affected subaccounts
rather than being netted to zero and not recorded in any
subaccount.  However, because such gross flows are offsetting,
they have no effect on net capital outflows.  For example, the
capitalization of intercompany debt, which gives rise to an
intercompany debt inflow and an offsetting equity capital
outflow, results in gross, but not net, flows.

Direct investment income
     Direct investment income is the return on the U.S. direct
investment position abroad; that is, it is the U.S. parents'
return on their debt and equity investment in foreign affiliates.
Direct investment income consists of earnings (that is, U.S.
parents' shares in the net income of their foreign affiliates)
and interest on intercompany debt between U.S. parents and
foreign affiliates (where interest is defined as interest
received by U.S. parents from their foreign affiliates, net of
interest paid by U.S. parents to their foreign affiliates).
     Direct investment income is recorded as accrued.  When funds
are not actually transferred to U.S. parents, offsetting entries
are made in the direct investment capital account.
     Direct investment income and earnings exclude all capital
gains and losses whether or not such gains and losses are
included in net income for income statement purposes.  This
treatment is intended to make income and earnings reflective of
the current operating performance of foreign affiliates, as
recommended by international guidelines for the compilation of
balance of payments accounts.
    Direct investment income (and the reinvested earnings
component of capital outflows) are adjusted to reflect
current-period prices prior to being entered into the
international transactions accounts (see the introduction to the
section "Direct Investment Position and Balance of Payments Data"
for details).  However, these adjustments are made on a global
basis only and do not appear in the tables in this publication,
which are disaggregated by country or by industry.
     Direct investment income is measured before deduction (that
is, gross) of all withholding taxes.  This treatment views
taxes as being levied on the recipient of the distributed
earnings or interest and thus as being paid across borders, even
though, as an administrative convenience, the taxes are actually
paid by the affiliate (or parent) whose disbursement gave rise to
them.  Thus, foreign withholding taxes on distributed earnings
and on interest received by the U.S. parent are recorded as if
they were paid by the parent, not by the foreign affiliate.
Similarly, U.S. withholding taxes on interest payments by the
U.S. parent are recorded as if they were paid by the foreign
affiliate, not by the U.S. parent.  Counter entries for these
taxes are made in the U.S. international transactions accounts
under unilateral transfers.
     BEA collects data on withholding taxes on distributed
earnings on its quarterly survey of U.S. direct investment
abroad, but withholding taxes on interest--and on royalties and
license fees and other private services, discussed in the next
two sections--are only collected in benchmark surveys.
Withholding taxes on these items must be estimated for
nonbenchmark years; the estimates are only prepared on a global
basis and are not disaggregated by country or industry.
     Interest is recorded on a net basis, which is interest paid
or credited to U.S. parents on debt owed to them by their foreign
affiliates less interest paid or credited by U.S. parents on debt
owed by them to their foreign affiliates.  Interest payments
are netted against interest receipts because in the intercompany
debt component of the U.S. direct investment position abroad,
debt owed by U.S. parents to foreign affiliates is netted against
debt owed by foreign affiliates to U.S. parents.  Interest
includes interest paid through debt creation or in kind, as well
as interest paid in cash.
     Interest includes net interest payments on capital leases
between U.S. parents and foreign affiliates because the
outstanding capitalized value of such leases is included in the
intercompany-debt component of the direct investment position.

Direct investment royalties and license fees
     Direct investment royalties and license fees consist of
receipts by U.S. parents from, and payments by U.S. parents to,
their foreign affiliates of fees for the use or sale of
intangible property or rights, such as patents, industrial
processes, trademarks, copyrights, franchises, designs,
expertise, formulas, techniques, manufacturing rights, and other
intangible assets or proprietary rights.
     U.S. parents' receipts and U.S. parents' payments for
royalties and license fees are entered separately into the U.S.
international transactions accounts; U.S. parents' receipts are
recorded as exports of services, and U.S. parents' payments are
recorded as imports of services.  Both receipts and payments are
measured before deduction, or gross, of (foreign or U.S.)
withholding taxes.
     Receipts and payments of royalties and license fees are
based on the accounting records of the U.S. parents and are
reported as accrued.  When funds are not actually transferred,
offsetting entries are made in the intercompany debt account.

Other direct investment services
     Transactions in other direct investment services consist of
receipts by U.S. parents from, and payments by U.S. parents to,
their foreign affiliates of service charges, of charges for the
use of tangible property, and for film and television tape
rentals.
     U.S. parents' receipts and U.S. parents' payments are
entered separately into the U.S. international transactions
accounts; U.S. parents' receipts are recorded as exports of
services, and U.S. parents' payments are recorded as imports of
services.  Both receipts and payments are measured before
deduction, or gross, of (foreign or U.S.) withholding taxes.
     Receipts and payments for other direct investment services
are based on the accounting records of the U.S. parents and are
reported as accrued.  When funds are not actually transferred,
offsetting entries are made in the intercompany debt account.
     Service charges.--Service charges consist of fees for
services--such as management, professional, or technical
services--rendered between U.S. parents and their foreign
affiliates.  The service charges may represent sales of services
or reimbursements.  Sales of services are receipts for services
rendered that are normally included in sales or gross operating
revenues in the income statement of the seller.  Normally, such
receipts are included in sales if the performance of the service
is a primary activity of the enterprise.  (For example, if a U.S.
management consulting firm provides management-consulting
services to its foreign affiliates, the resulting revenues are
included in its sales.)
     Reimbursements are receipts for services rendered that are
normally included in "other income" rather than in sales in the
income statement of the provider of the service.  Normally, the
performance of the service is not a primary activity of the
enterprise; however, the service may facilitate or support the
conduct of the enterprise's primary activities.  (For example, if
a U.S. manufacturer provides management services to its foreign
manufacturing affiliate, the associated charges would be recorded
in its income statement under "other income" and reported to BEA
as a reimbursement.)
     Reimbursements may be allocated expenses or direct charges
for the services rendered.  Allocated expenses are overhead
expenses that are apportioned among the various divisions or
parts of an enterprise.  An example would be R&D assessments on
foreign affiliates by a U.S. parent for R&D the parent performs
and shares with its affiliates.
     Data on intercompany service charges are disaggregated into
six categories--insurance services, financial services,
transportation services, computer and information services,
communication services, and "other services"--for the first time
in this publication; these data are presented in table II.Z8.
The new data were collected on the 1994 benchmark survey to allow
all U.S. international transactions in private services--with
both affiliated and unaffiliated foreigners--to be disaggregated
by the categories specified in the International Monetary Fund's
Balance of Payments Manual.  The new data complement data from
other BEA surveys that collect data on U.S. international
transactions in private services.  (See the footnotes to table
II.Z8 for the definitions used on the 1994 benchmark survey for
each category of intercompany service charges.)
     The data on intercompany service charges by category
indicate that 83.0 percent of U.S. parents' receipts and 74.9
percent of U.S. parents' payments were "other" services.  These
high percentages may result because survey respondents do not
have the necessary information in their standard accounting
records to provide a breakdown of their allocated expenses or of
other services transactions with their foreign affiliates by type
of service.  The share for "other" services may also be large
because many services (such as advertising, management, research
and development, and accounting services) are not covered by the
other five categories.
     Charges for the use of tangible property.--Charges for the
use of tangible property include total lease payments under
operating leases of 1 year or less and net rent on operating
leases of more than 1 year.  From the lessors' viewpoint, total
lease payments for operating leases consist of two components:
(1) Net rent, which covers interest, administrative expenses, and
profit, and (2) depreciation, which is a return of capital.
     For operating leases of more than 1 year, net rent is
included in "other direct investment services," and depreciation
is included as an intercompany debt flow in the direct investment
capital account.  For operating leases of 1 year or less, total
lease payments--both net rent and depreciation--are included in
"other direct investment services."  Because the value of
property leased to or from foreigners for 1 year or less is
excluded from U.S. exports and imports of goods in the U.S.
international transactions accounts, no export or import by U.S.
parents is recorded in the trade-in-goods account; thus, no
subsequent return of capital to or by U.S. parents in the form of
depreciation is recorded in the direct investment capital
account.  Instead, such depreciation is considered part of
rentals--a receipt for services rendered by, rather than a return
of capital to, the lessor.
     Film and television tape rentals.--Film and television tape
rentals are rentals received by U.S. parents from, and rentals
paid by U.S. parents to, their foreign affiliates for the sale or
use of film and television tapes.  Except for mass-produced films
and tapes, such as prerecorded video cassettes (which are
recorded in the U.S. trade-in-goods), such film and television
tapes are treated as if they were being rented rather than sold,
and payments for the tapes are considered payments for services
rather than payments for goods.  This treatment is used because
the value of the tapes is derived mostly from the
services--entertainment, education, and so on--that they provide,
not from the value of the media on which they are recorded.
Thus, the cost of the film and television tapes is excluded from
the U.S. trade-in-goods account and is included instead in "other
direct investment services."

                       Table Arrangement

     The amount and type of data available from the benchmark
survey varies according to whether the foreign affiliates or U.S.
parents are banks or nonbanks, and for nonbank affiliates,
according to whether they are majority or minority owned.  The 15
possible groups of affiliates and parents are shown in table 7.

     Table 7.--Selected Data for Foreign Affiliates and Their U.S. Parents, by Group of Affiliate or Parent
                           Panel A.--Affiliate Data
                                                                          All affiliates                      Nonbank affiliates                                                                                          Bank affiliates
                                                                             Of all        Of          Of     Of all parents                      Of nonbank parents                  Of bank parents                        Of all       Of        Of bank
                                                                            parents     nonbank       bank       Total     Majority-     Other       Total     Majority-     Other       Total     Majority-     Other      parents     nonbank     parents
                                                                                        parents     parents                  owned      nonbank                  owned      nonbank                  owned      nonbank                 parents
                                                                                                                            nonbank      affil-                 nonbank      affil-                 nonbank      affil-
                                                                                                                             affil-     iates/2/                 affil-     iates/2/                 affil-     iates/2/
                                                                                                                            iates/1/                            iates/1/                            iates/1/
                                                                              (1)         (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)         (6)         (7)         (8)         (9)         (10)        (11)        (12)        (13)        (14)        (15)
    Number of affiliates .................................................     22,332      21,487         845      21,761      19,196       2,565      21,436      18,929       2,507         325         267          58         571          51         520
    Total assets (millions of dollars) ............................         3,380,983   2,412,982     968,001   2,485,555   2,118,657     366,898   2,376,902   2,022,677     354,225     108,653      95,980      12,673     895,428      36,080     859,348
    Sales (millions of dollars) ..........................................  1,830,744   1,759,896      70,848   1,766,382   1,442,009     324,373   1,757,388   1,435,901     321,487       8,994       6,108       2,886      64,362       2,508      61,854
    Net income (millions of dollars) ....................................     101,792      94,348       7,444      95,760      82,273      13,487      93,986      81,095      12,891       1,774       1,178         596       6,032         362       5,670
    Number of employees (thousands) ....................................      7,240.5     7,112.6       128.0     7,128.4     5,717.8     1,410.6     7,104.6     5,707.1     1,397.5        23.8        10.7        13.1       112.2         8.0       104.2
    Compensation of employees (millions of dollars) ..............            230,629     224,722       5,906     225,157     184,245      40,912     224,275     183,591      40,684         882         654         228       5,471         447       5,024
    U.S. direct investment position abroad on a
      historical-cost basis (millions of dollars) ..............              606,393     571,799      34,594     580,508     546,530      33,978     569,317     536,298      33,019      11,191      10,232         959      25,885       2,482      23,403
    Direct investment income (millions of dollars) ..........                  67,596      62,687       4,909      63,546      61,416       2,130      62,422      60,449       1,973       1,124         967         157       4,050         265       3,785

                          Panel B.--U.S. Parent Data
                                                                          Parents of all affiliates           Parents of nonbank affiliates                                                                               Parents of bank affiliates
                                                                              All       Nonbank      Bank     All parents                         Nonbank parents                     Bank parents                            All       Nonbank       Bank
                                                                            parents     parents     parents     Total/3/       Of         Of        Total/3/       Of         Of        Total/3/       Of         Of        parents     parents     parents
                                                                                                                           majority-     other                 majority-     other                 majority-     other        /3/         /3/         /3/
                                                                                                                             owned      nonbank                  owned      nonbank                  owned      nonbank
                                                                                                                            nonbank      affil-                 nonbank      affil-                 nonbank      affil-
                                                                                                                             affil-     iates/2/                 affil-     iates/2/                 affil-     iates/2/
                                                                                                                            iates/1/      /4/                   iates/1/      /4/                   iates/1/      /4/
                                                                                                                              /4/                                 /4/                                 /4/

                                                                              (1)         (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)         (6)         (7)         (8)         (9)         (10)        (11)        (12)        (13)        (14)        (15)
    Number of U.S. parents ...................................                  2,681       2,621          60       2,644       2,510         702       2,621       2,490         687          23          20          15          73          15          58
    Total assets (millions of dollars) ......................               8,636,571   6,718,003   1,918,568   7,952,491   7,770,715   5,308,184   6,718,003   6,622,513   4,254,700   1,234,488   1,148,202   1,053,484   2,657,477     754,510   1,902,967
    Sales (millions of dollars) ..........................................  4,148,552   3,990,013     158,539   4,096,101   3,936,312   2,678,509   3,990,013   3,837,699   2,589,660     106,088      98,613      88,849     298,275     141,510     157,275
    Net income (millions of dollars) ....................................     214,352     191,154      23,199     206,063     201,904     145,811     191,154     188,247     133,368      14,909      13,656      12,443      31,612       8,580      23,032
    Number of employees (thousands) ....................................     19,330.0    18,565.4       764.6    19,026.4    18,073.3    11,398.1    18,565.4    17,647.4    11,045.0       460.9       425.9       353.1     1,121.1       363.7       757.3
    Compensation of employees (millions of dollars) ..............            840,608     805,372      35,235     828,461     811,496     525,262     805,372     790,074     506,714      23,088      21,422      18,548      57,768      22,838      34,930
      1. A majority-owned nonbank affiliate is a nonbank affiliate in which the combined direct and indirect
    ownership interest of all U.S. parents exceeds 50 percent.
      2. Other nonbank affiliates are nonbank affiliates that are not majority-owned nonbank affiliates, as described in footnote 1.
      3. Because some parents have both nonbank and bank affiliates, the sum of columns 4 and 13, columns 7 and 14, and columns 10 and 15
    contain duplication and do not equal the totals in columns 1, 2, and 3, repectively, in panel B.
      4. Because some parents have both majority- and minority-owned affiliates, the sum of columns 5 and 6, columns 8 and 9, and columns 11 and 12
    contain duplication and do not equal the totals in columns 4, 7, and 10, respectively, in panel B.


    Selected data for the affiliates in each group are shown in panel
A, and selected data for each group's U.S. parents are shown in
panel B.  Primarily because of space and resource limitations,
the tables in this publication cover only 5 of the 15 groups:
Group I, all affiliates of all U.S. parents (column 1 of table
7); group II, nonbank affiliates of nonbank U.S. parents (column
7); group III, majority-owned nonbank affiliates of nonbank U.S.
parents (column 8); group IV, nonbank affiliates of U.S. parents
in banking (column 10); and group V, bank affiliates of all U.S.
parents (column 13).  In total, 15 tables are presented for group
I; 83 tables, for group II; 143 tables, for group III; 1 table,
for group IV; and 1 table, for group V.
     The following list indicates the tables included in this
publication for each of the five affiliate groups.  The columns
represent the five affiliate groups and the rows list the
different tables.  An "X" in the column for a given affiliate
group means that the listed table is published for the affiliates
in that group or for their U.S. parents.
     Each table is identified by an alphanumeric code consisting
of (1) a Roman numeral (I, II, III, IV, or V) to indicate the
affiliate group covered, (2) a capital letter to indicate the
general subject matter, and (3) an Arabic numeral to indicate
the specific subject matter of the table.  For example, table
I.B5 covers all affiliates of all U.S. parents (group I), is part
of the group of tables that covers affiliates' balance sheets,
and provides data specifically on total assets disaggregated by
country and cross-classified by major industry.  If a given table
is published for more than one affiliate group, it will have the
same letter and Arabic numeral designation (to indicate that the
general and specific subject matters of the tables are the same),
but it will have different Roman numerals (to indicate that
different affiliate groups are being covered).  For example,
table III.B5 has the same format and the same general and
specific subject matters as table I.B5, but it covers
majority-owned nonbank affiliates of nonbank U.S. parents (group
III) rather than all affiliates of all U.S. parents (group I).
     All tables for group I are presented first, followed by
tables for groups II, III, IV, and V, in that order.  The group
covered is indicated in the "running head" at the top of each
page.
     Because some tables are not shown for some affiliate groups,
the numbering of tables often are not consecutive within a group.
For example, the first table presented for group I affiliates is
table I.A3 because tables I.A1 and I.A2 are not presented.

                                                             LIST OF TABLES
                                                                                                                                                             Affiliate group
                                                                                                                                          I           II         III          IV          V
                                                                                                                                                   Nonbank    Majority-
                           An "X" in the column for a given affiliate group means that the listed table format                           All      affiliates    owned      Nonbank
                              is published for the affiliates in that group or for their U.S. parents.  For                           affiliates      of       nonbank    affiliates     Bank
                                       further explanation, see the section on table arrangement.                                    of all U.S.   nonbank    affiliates   of U.S.    affiliates
                                                                                                                                       parents       U.S.         of      parents in of all U.S.
                                                                                                                                                   parents     nonbank     banking     parents
                                                                                                                                                                 U.S.
                                                                                                                                                               parents

                                             Foreign affiliate financial and operating data

    A. Selected data:
            1. Selected Data for Foreign Affiliates in All Countries in Which Investment Was Reported............................................     X......     X      ........................
            2. Selected Data for Foreign Affiliates and U.S. Parents in All Industries...........................................................     X......     X      ........................
            3. Selected Data for Foreign Affiliates, by Country .....................................................................     X..............................     X      ............
            4. Selected Data for Foreign Affiliates and U.S. Parents, by Industry....................................................     X......................................................
            5. Selected Data for Foreign Affiliates and U.S. Parents, by Industry of U.S. Parent ....................................     X......................................................

    B. Balance sheet:
            1. Balance Sheet of Affiliates--Assets, Country by Account...........................................................................     X......     X..... ........................
            2. Balance Sheet of Affiliates--Liabilities and Owners' Equity, Country by Account...................................................     X......     X..............................
            3. Balance Sheet of Affiliates--Assets, Industry by Account..........................................................................     X......     X..............................
            4. Balance Sheet of Affiliates--Liabilities and Owners' Equity, Industry by Account..................................................     X......     X..............................
            5. Total Assets of Affiliates, Country by Industry.......................................................................     X......     X......     X..............................
            6. Total Assets of Affiliates, Industry by Country...................................................................................     X......     X..............................
            7. Net Property, Plant, and Equipment of Affiliates, Country by Industry.............................................................     X......     X..............................
            8. Net Property, Plant, and Equipment of Affiliates, Industry by Country.............................................................     X......     X..............................
            9. Owners' Equity of Affiliates, Country by Industry.................................................................................     X......     X..............................
           10. Owners' Equity of Affiliates, Industry by Country.................................................................................     X......     X..............................
           11. Balance Sheet of Affiliates--Assets, Industry of U.S. Parent by Account...........................................................     X......     X      ........................
           12. Balance Sheet of Affiliates--Liabilities and Owners' Equity, Industry of U.S. Parent by Account...................................     X......     X..............................
           13. Total Assets of Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Country....................................................................     X......     X      ........................

    C. External financial position:
            1. External Financial Position of Affiliates, Selected Industry and Transactor by Account .......................................................     X      ........................
            2. External Financial Position of Affiliates in Canada, Selected Industry and Transactor by Account .............................................     X      ........................
            3. External Financial Position of Affiliates in France, Selected Industry and Transactor by Account .............................................     X      ........................
            4. External Financial Position of Affiliates in Germany, Selected Industry and Transactor by Account ............................................     X      ........................
            5. External Financial Position of Affiliates in the United Kingdom, Selected Industry and Transactor by Account .................................     X      ........................
            6. External Financial Position of Affiliates in Brazil, Selected Industry and Transactor by Account .............................................     X      ........................
            7. External Financial Position of Affiliates in Mexico, Selected Industry and Transactor by Account .............................................     X      ........................
            8. External Financial Position of Affiliates in Australia, Selected Industry and Transactor by Account ..........................................     X      ........................
            9. External Financial Position of Affiliates in Japan, Selected Industry and Transactor by Account ..............................................     X      ........................
            10. External Financial Position of Affiliates, Selected Industry of U.S. Parent and Transactor by Account........................................     X..............................

    D. Property, plant, and equipment:
            1. Change in Property, Plant, and Equipment of Affiliates, Country by Account....................................................................     X..    ........................
            2. Change in Property, Plant, and Equipment of Affiliates, Industry by Account...................................................................     X...   ........................
            3. Change in Property, Plant, and Equipment of Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Account....................................................     X..............................
            4. Capital Expenditures by Affiliates, Country by Type...........................................................................................     X..............................
            5. Capital Expenditures by Affiliates, Industry by Type..........................................................................................     X..............................
            6. Capital Expenditures by Affiliates, Country by Industry...........................................................................     X......     X..............................
            7. Capital Expenditures by Affiliates, Industry by Country...........................................................................     X......     X..............................
            8. Capital Expenditures by Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Country........................................................................     X..............................
            9. Plant and Equipment Expenditures by Affiliates, Country by Industry...........................................................................     X      ........................

    E. Income statement:
            1. Income Statement of Affiliates, Country by Account................................................................................     X......     X..... ........................
            2. Income Statement of Affiliates, Industry by Account...............................................................................     X......     X..............................
            3. Sales by Affiliates, Country by Industry..............................................................................     X......     X......     X..............................
            4. Sales by Affiliates, Industry by Country..........................................................................................     X......     X..............................
            5. Foreign Income Taxes of Affiliates, Country by Industry...........................................................................     X......     X...   ........................
            6. Net Income of Affiliates, Country by Industry.........................................................................     X......     X......     X..............................
            7. Net Income of Affiliates, Industry by Country.....................................................................................     X......     X...   ........................
            8. Income Statement of Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Account................................................................     X......     X      ........................
            9. Sales by Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Country...........................................................................     X......     X..    ........................
           10. Foreign Income Taxes of Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Country............................................................     X....       X      ........................
           11. Net Income of Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Country......................................................................     X.....      X      ........................

    F. Sales:
            1. Sales by Affiliates, Selected Area and Industry of Affiliate and Type of Sale
                 by Destination and Transactor...............................................................................................................     X..    ........................
            2. Sales by Affiliates, Country of Affiliate by Destination......................................................................................     X      ........................
            3. Sales by Affiliates, Industry of Affiliate by Destination.....................................................................................     X      ........................
            4. Sales by Affiliates to the United States, Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate.......................................................     X...   ........................
            5. Sales by Affiliates to Foreign Countries, Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate.......................................................     X..............................
            6. Sales by Affiliates to Foreign Countries, Industry of Affiliate by Country of Affiliate.......................................................     X..............................
            7. Local Sales by Affiliates, Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate......................................................................     X      ........................
            8. Sales by Affiliates to Foreign Countries Other Than the Host Country, Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate...........................     X..............................
            9. Sales by Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Destination...................................................................................     X      ........................
           10. Sales by Affiliates to Foreign Countries Other Than the Host Country, Selected Industry and Country of Affiliate
                 by Country of Destination...................................................................................................................     X..............................
           11. Sales by Affiliates to Affiliates in Foreign Countries Other Than the Host Country, Selected Industry
                 and Country of Affiliate by Country of Destination..........................................................................................     X..............................
           12. Sales by Affiliates to Unaffiliated Foreigners in Foreign Countries Other Than the Host Country, Selected Industry
                 and Country of Affiliate by Country of Destination..........................................................................................     X..............................
           13. Sales of Goods by Affiliates, Country of Affiliate by Destination.............................................................................     X      ........................
           14. Sales of Goods by Affiliates, Industry of Affiliate by Destination............................................................................     X      ........................
           15. Sales of Goods by Affiliates, Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate...................................................................     X      ........................
           16. Sales of Goods by Affiliates, Industry of Affiliate by Country of Affiliate...................................................................     X      ........................
           17. Sales of Services by Affiliates, Country of Affiliate by Destination..........................................................................     X      ........................
           18. Sales of Services by Affiliates, Industry of Affiliate by Destination.........................................................................     X      ........................
           19. Sales of Services by Affiliates, Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate................................................................     X      ........................
           20. Sales of Services by Affiliates, Industry of Affiliate by Country of Affiliate................................................................     X..... ........................
           21. Sales of Services by Affiliates to Foreigners, Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate..................................................     X..............................
           22. Sales of Services by Affiliates to Foreigners, Industry of Affiliate by Country of Affiliate..................................................     X..............................
           23. Sales by Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Type of Sale and Destination..................................................................     X      ........................
           24. Sales by Affiliates, Industry of Affiliate by Industry of Sales...................................................................     X......     X      ........................

    G. Gross Product:
            1. Gross Product of Affiliates, Country by Component.............................................................................................     X      ........................
            2. Gross Product of Affiliates, Industry by Component............................................................................................     X      ........................
            3. Gross Product of Affiliates, Country by Industry..............................................................................................     X      ........................
            4. Gross Product of Affiliates, Industry by Country..............................................................................................     X      ........................
            5. Gross Product of Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Component.............................................................................     X      ........................
            6. Gross Product of Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Country...............................................................................     X      ........................
            7. Profit-Type Return of Affiliates, Country by Industry ........................................................................................     X      ........................
            8. Profit-Type Return of Affiliates, Industry by Country ........................................................................................     X      ........................
            9. Profit-Type Return of Affiliates, Industry of Parent by Country ..............................................................................     X      ........................

    H. Employment and compensation of employees:
            1. Employment and Compensation of Employees of Affiliates, Country by Type.......................................................................     X      ........................
            2. Employment and Compensation of Employees of Affiliates, Industry by Type......................................................................     X      ........................
            3. Employment of Affiliates, Country by Industry.........................................................................     X......     X......     X      ........................
            4. Employment of Affiliates, Industry by Country.....................................................................................     X......     X..    ........................
            5. Research and Development Employees of Affiliates, Country by Industry.........................................................................     X      ........................
            6. Compensation of Employees of Affiliates, Country by Industry..........................................................     X......     X......     X..............................
            7. Compensation of Employees of Affiliates, Industry by Country......................................................................     X......     X..............................
            8. Wages and Salaries of Employees of Affiliates, Country by Industry............................................................................     X...   ........................
            9. Supplements to Wages and Salaries of Employees of  Affiliates, Country by Industry............................................................     X      ........................
           10. Employment and Compensation of Employees of Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Type.......................................................     X..............................
           11. Employment of Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Country......................................................................     X           X      ........................
           12. Compensation of Employees of Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Country.......................................................     X......     X..    ........................
           13. Employment, Compensation, and Hours Worked of Production Workers of
                 Manufacturing Affiliates, by Country........................................................................................................     X      ........................
           14. Employment, Compensation, and Hours Worked of Production Workers of
                 Manufacturing Affiliates, by Industry.......................................................................................................     X..... ........................
           15. Production Workers of Manufacturing Affiliates, Country by Industry...........................................................................     X      ........................
           16. Compensation of Production Workers of Manufacturing Affiliates, Country by Industry...........................................................     X      ........................
           17. Compensation Per Hour of Production Workers of Manufacturing Affiliates, Country by Industry..................................................     X      ........................
           18. Compensation Per Hour of Production Workers of Manufacturing Affiliates, Industry by Country..................................................     X      ........................
           19. Employment, Compensation, and Hours Worked of Production Workers of
                 Manufacturing Affiliates, by Industry of U.S. Parent........................................................................................     X      ........................
           20. Compensation Per Hour of Production Workers of Manufacturing Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent
                 by Country..................................................................................................................................     X..............................

    I. U.S. trade in goods:
            1. U.S. Trade in Goods With Affiliates, by Country of Affiliate......................................................................     X....       X      ........................
            2. U.S. Trade in Goods With Affiliates, by Industry of Affiliate.....................................................................     X.....      X      ........................
            3. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates, Country of Affiliate by Product..................................................................     X..............................
            4. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates, Industry of Affiliate by Product.................................................................     X..............................
            5. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates, Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate........................................     X......     X..............................
            6. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates, Industry of Affiliate by Country of Affiliate........................................     X......     X..............................
            7. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates by U.S. Parents, Country of Affiliate by Product..................................................     X..............................
            8. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates by U.S. Parents, Industry of Affiliate by Product.................................................     X..............................
            9. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates by U.S. Parents, Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate........................     X......     X..............................
           10. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates by U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Product...............................................     X..............................
           11. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates by Unaffiliated U.S. Persons, Country of Affiliate by Product.....................................     X      ........................
           12. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates, Country of Affiliate by Whom Shipped and Intended Use............................................     X      ........................
           13. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates, Industry of Affiliate by Whom Shipped and Intended Use...........................................     X      ........................
           14. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates for Resale Without Further Manufacture,
                 Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate...............................................................................................     X      ........................
           15. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates for Further Manufacture,
                 Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate...............................................................................................     X      ........................
           16. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped to Affiliates by U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Intended Use..........................................     X      ........................
           17. U.S. Imports of Goods Shipped by Affiliates, Country of Affiliate by Product..................................................................     X..............................
           18. U.S. Imports of Goods Shipped by Affiliates, Industry of Affiliate by Product.................................................................     X..............................
           19. U.S. Imports of Goods Shipped by Affiliates, Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate........................................     X......     X..............................
           20. U.S. Imports of Goods Shipped by Affiliates, Industry of Affiliate by Country of Affiliate........................................     X......     X..............................
           21. U.S. Imports of Goods Shipped by Affiliates to U.S. Parents, Country of Affiliate by Product..................................................     X..............................
           22. U.S. Imports of Goods Shipped by Affiliates to U.S. Parents, Industry of Affiliate by Product.................................................     X..............................
           23. U.S. Imports of Goods Shipped by Affiliates to U.S. Parents, Country of Affiliate by Industry of Affiliate........................     X......     X..............................
           24. U.S. Imports of Goods Shipped by Affiliates to U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Product...............................................     X..............................
           25. U.S. Imports of Goods Shipped by Affiliates to Unaffiliated U.S. Persons, Country of Affiliate by Product.....................................     X      ........................

    J. Technology:
            1. Research and Development Performed by and Funded by Affiliates, by Country....................................................................     X      ........................
            2. Research and Development Performed by and Funded by Affiliates, by Industry...................................................................     X      ........................
            3. Research and Development Performed by Affiliates, Country by Industry.........................................................................     X      ........................
            4. Research and Development Performed by Affiliates, Industry by Country.........................................................................     X      ........................
            5. Research and Development Performed by and Funded by Affiliates, by Industry of U.S. Parent....................................................     X      ........................
            6. Research and Development Performed by Affiliates, Industry of U.S. Parent by Country..........................................................     X      ........................
            7. Royalties and License Fees of Affiliates, Receipts and Payments, Country by Transactor........................................................     X      ........................
            8. Royalties and License Fees of Affiliates, Receipts and Payments, Industry by Transactor.......................................................     X      ........................
            9. Receipts of Royalties and License Fees by Affiliates, Country by Industry.....................................................................     X      ........................
           10. Payments of Royalties and License Fees by Affiliates, Country by Industry.....................................................................     X      ........................
           11. Royalties and License Fees of Affiliates, Receipts and Payments, Industry of U.S. Parent by Transactor........................................     X..    ........................

    K. Other financial and operating data:
            1. Interest, Production Royalty Payments, Taxes Other Than Income and Payroll Taxes,
                 and Subsidies of Affiliates, by Country.....................................................................................................     X      ........................
            2. Interest, Production Royalty Payments, Taxes Other Than Income and Payroll Taxes,
                 and Subsidies of Affiliates, by Industry....................................................................................................     X.     ........................
            3. Taxes Other Than Income and Payroll Taxes, Country by Industry................................................................................     X      ........................

                              U.S. parent financial and operating data

    L. Selected data:
            1. Selected Financial and Operating Data of U.S. Parents, by Industry of U.S. Parent.....................................     X......     X......     X      ............     X
            2. Number of U.S. Parents That Had Affiliates in a Given Country and Industry, Country
                 by Industry of Affiliate............................................................................................     X......................................................

    M. Balance sheet:
            1. Balance Sheet of U.S. Parents--Assets, Industry of U.S. Parent by Account.........................................................     X      ....................................
            2. Balance Sheet of U.S. Parents--Liabilities and Owners' Equity, Industry of U.S. Parent by Account.................................     X..........................................

    N. Asset and liability positions:
            1. Selected Asset and Liability Positions of U.S. Parents, Selected Industry and Transactor by Account...............................     X...   ....................................

    O. Property, plant, and equipment:
            1. Change in Property, Plant, and Equipment of U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Account......................................     X..........................................
            2. Capital Expenditures by U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Account..........................................................     X..........................................

    P. Income statement:
            1. Income Statement of U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Account..............................................................     X      ....................................

    Q. Sales:
            1. Sales by U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Type and Destination............................................................     X      ....................................
            2. Sales by U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Industry of Sales...............................................................     X....  ....................................

    R. Gross Product:
            1. Gross Product of U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Component ..............................................................     X      ....................................

    S. Employment and compensation of employees:
            1. Employment and Compensation of Employees of U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Type.........................................     X..........................................
            2. Employment of U.S. Parents, Industry of U.S. Parent by Industry of Sales..........................................................     X..........................................

    T. U.S. trade in goods:
            1. U.S. Exports of Goods Associated With U.S. Parents and Their Foreign Affiliates, by Industry of U.S. Parent.......................     X      ....................................
            2. U.S. Exports of Goods Associated With U.S. Parents and Their Foreign Affiliates, by Country of Destination........................     X      ....................................
            3. U.S. Exports of Goods Shipped by U.S. Parents to Foreigners Other Than Foreign Affiliates,
                 Industry of U.S. Parent by Product..............................................................................................     X..........................................
            4. U.S. Imports of Goods Associated With U.S. Parents and Their Foreign Affiliates, by Industry of U.S. Parent.......................     X      ....................................
            5. U.S. Imports of Goods Associated With U.S. Parents and Their Foreign Affiliates, by Country of Origin.............................     X      ....................................
            6. U.S. Imports of Goods Shipped to U.S. Parents by Foreigners Other Than Foreign Affiliates,
                 Industry of U.S. Parent by Product..............................................................................................     X..........................................

    U. Technology:
            1. Research and Development Performed by and Funded by U.S. Parents, by Industry of U.S. Parent......................................     X..........................................
            2. Royalties and License Fees of U.S. Parents, Receipts and Payments, by Industry of U.S. Parent.....................................     X      ....................................

    V. Other financial and operating data:
            1. Interest, Production Royalty Payments, and Taxes Other Than Income and Payroll Taxes
                 of U.S. Parents, by Industry of U.S. Parent.....................................................................................     X..........................................

                     Direct investment position and balance of payments data

    W. U.S. direct investment position abroad:
            1. U.S. Direct Investment Position Abroad on a Historical-Cost Basis, Country by Account.................................     X           X           X      ........................
            2. U.S. Direct Investment Position Abroad on a Historical-Cost Basis, Industry by Account............................................     X      ....................................
            3. U.S. Direct Investment Position Abroad on a Historical-Cost Basis, Country by Industry............................................     X      ....................................
            4. U.S. Direct Investment Position Abroad on a Historical-Cost Basis, Industry of U.S. Parent by Account.............................     X      ....................................

    X. Change in the position on a historical-cost basis and direct investment capital outflows:
            1. Change in the U.S. Direct Investment Position Abroad on a Historical-Cost Basis, Country by Account...................     X......     X           X      ........................
            2. Change in the U.S. Direct Investment Position Abroad on a Historical-Cost Basis, Industry by Account..............................     X      ....................................
            3. Direct Investment Capital Outflows, Country by Industry...........................................................................     X..........................................

    Y. Direct investment income:
            1. Direct Investment Income, Country by Component........................................................................     X......     X......     X      ........................
            2. Direct Investment Income, Industry by Component...................................................................................     X..........................................
            3. Direct Investment Income, Country by Industry.....................................................................................     X..... ....................................
            4. Direct Investment Income, Industry of U.S. Parent by Component....................................................................     X..........................................

    Z. Direct investment royalties and license fees and other direct investment services:
            1. Direct Investment Royalties and License Fees, Receipts and Payments by U.S. Parents, Country
                 by Type.............................................................................................................     X......     X......     X..............................
            2. Direct Investment Royalties and License Fees, Receipts and Payments by U.S. Parents, Industry
                 by Type.........................................................................................................................     X..........................................
            3. Receipts of Royalties and License Fees by U.S. Parents, Country by Industry.......................................................     X..........................................
            4. Other Direct Investment Services, Receipts and Payments by U.S. Parents, Country by Type..............................     X......     X           X      ........................
            5. Other Direct Investment Services, Receipts and Payments by U.S. Parents, Industry by Type.........................................     X..........................................
            6. Receipts for Other Direct Investment Services by U.S. Parents, Country by Industry................................................     X..........................................
            7. Payments for Other Direct Investment Services by U.S. Parents, Country by Industry................................................     X..........................................
            8. Service charges, Receipts and Payments by U.S. Parents, Major Area and Major Industry by Type.....................................     X..........................................





                    General Notes to Tables

         The estimates are on a fiscal year (FY) basis; an
     affiliate's fiscal year is defined as the financial
     reporting year that ended in that calendar year.  Unless
     otherwise specified, all balances are as of the close of FY
     1994.
         Detail may not add to totals because of rounding.
         An asterisk "(*)" indicates a value between -$500,000 and
     $500,000, or fewer than 50 employees, as appropriate.
         A "(D)" indicates that the data in the cell have been
     suppressed to avoid disclosure of data of individual
     companies.  For employment data, a letter representing a
     size range is entered in place of a "(D)".
         The designation "by country" in a table title indicates that
     data are disaggregated by country of foreign affiliate.
         Unless otherwise specified, the designation "by industry" in
     a table title indicates that the data are disaggregated by
     industry of foreign affiliate.
         For tables that do not show every individual country, see
     table II.A1 or III.A1 to find the individual countries that
     compose each country group shown in the heading or stub.
     For tables that do not show every individual industry, see
     table II.A2 or III.A2 to find the individual industries that
     compose each industry group shown in the heading or stub.
     The industries listed in table II.A2 and III.A2 are
     described in BEA's Guide to Industry and Foreign Trade
     Classifications for International Surveys (see the
     appendix).
         The country category "international" consists of affiliates
     that have operations spanning more than one country and that
     are engaged in petroleum shipping, other water
     transportation, or oil and gas drilling.
         "Eastern Europe" comprises Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan,
     Belarus, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia,
     Hungary, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland,
     Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan,
     Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.
         The European Union (12) comprises Belgium, Denmark, France,
     Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the
     Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom.
         OPEC is the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
     Its members are Algeria, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
     Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
     Emirates, and Venezuela.
         In BEA's direct investment statistics, petroleum is
     presented as a "major industry" that consolidates all the
     activities associated with petroleum production,
     transportation, and distribution.  Consequently, in this
     publication, the data for these activities are excluded from
     major industries in which they would usually be included.
     In particular, manufacturing excludes petroleum and coal
     products manufacturing, mining excludes oil and gas
     extraction, wholesale trade excludes petroleum wholesale
     trade, retail trade excludes gasoline service stations, and
     transportation excludes petroleum tanker operations,
     pipelines, and storage.
    All footnotes follow the last table.

                      Footnotes to Tables

Table I.L2
  1. A U.S. parent that had affiliates in more than one country
or industry is counted once in each country or industry in which
it had affiliates.  Thus, the numbers appearing in individual
country/industry cells do not add to the subtotals and totals.

Table I.W1
  1. Includes common and preferred stock of affiliates owned by
U.S. parents and U.S. parents' equity in affiliates' additional
paid-in capital.  Also includes U.S. parents' equity in those
unincorporated affiliates for which detail on equity by type
could not be provided, less translation adjustments.
  2. U.S. parents' equity in retained earnings and other
reserves.
  3. Consists of the U.S. parents' share in the cumulative amount
of capital gains and losses associated with currency-translation
adjustments--that is, gains and losses that arise because of
changes in the exchange rates that are applied in translating
affiliates' assets and liabilities from their functional
currencies into U.S. dollars from the end of one accounting
period to the next.

Table I.X1
  1. A net increase in U.S. parents' equity in affiliates is a
capital outflow; a net decrease is a capital inflow.
  2. Equals earnings (that is, the U.S. parents' share in the
earnings of their foreign affiliates) less distributed earnings
(that is, earnings distributed to U.S. parents before deduction
of foreign withholding taxes).
  3. An increase in U.S. parents' payables is a decrease in net
intercompany accounts and, therefore, a capital inflow.
  4. Consists of the U.S. parents' share in the amount of capital
gains and losses associated with currency-translation
adjustments--that is, gains and losses that arise because of
changes in the exchange rates that are applied in translating
affiliates' assets and liabilities from their functional
currencies into U.S. dollars from the end of one accounting
period to the next.

Table I.Y1
  1. Excludes capital gains and losses.  As presented here, is
not adjusted to reflect current-period prices.  Prior to being
entered into the international transactions accounts, adjustments
to reflect current-period prices are made to direct investment
income on a global basis only.  These adjustments do not appear
in the direct investment income tables that are disaggregated by
country or by industry.
  2. U.S. parents' shares in the net income of their affiliates,
before deduction of foreign withholding taxes on distributed
earnings.
  3. Earnings distributed to U.S. parents before deduction of
foreign withholding taxes.
  4. Interest received by or credited to U.S. parents on debt
owed to them by their affiliates, less interest paid or credited
by U.S. parents on debt owed by them to their affiliates, both
before deduction of (foreign or U.S.) withholding taxes.

Table I.Z1
  1. Receipts are before deduction of foreign withholding taxes.
  2. Payments are before deduction of U.S. withholding taxes.

Table I.Z4
  1. Receipts are before deduction of foreign withholding taxes.
  2. Consists of receipts for services--such as management,
professional, or technical services--rendered between U.S.
parents and their foreign affiliates, whether in the form of
sales of services or reimbursements.  Sales of services are
receipts for services rendered that are normally included in
sales in the income statement of the seller; reimbursements are
receipts for services rendered that are normally included in
"other income" in the income statement of the provider of the
service.  See the methodology for further explanation.
  3. Payments are before deduction of U.S. withholding taxes.

Tables II.B2, II.B4, and II.B12
  1. Includes common and preferred stock and additional
paid-in-capital, less treasury stock.  Also includes total equity
in unincorporated affiliates for which detail on equity by type
could not be provided.
  2. Includes retained earnings and other reserves.
  3. Consists of the cumulative amount of capital gains and
losses associated with currency-translation adjustments--that is,
gains and losses that arise because of changes in the exchange
rates that are applied in translating affiliates' assets and
liabilities from their functional currencies into U.S. dollars
from the end of one accounting period to the next.

Tables II.D6 and II.D7
  1. Includes the net book value of "transfers in" of property,
plant, and equipment to majority-owned affiliates only.  Data on
"transfers in" of minority-owned affiliates were not collected;
however, they are probably insignificant.  For a given affiliate,
"transfers in" are from its U.S. parent or from other foreign
affiliates of its U.S. parent.

Tables II.E1, II.E2, and II.E8
  1. Consists of gains (losses), net of income tax effects,
resulting from (1) the sale, disposition, or revaluation of
assets; (2) the remeasurement of the foreign affiliates' assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies other than the
affiliate's functional currency, to reflect changes in foreign
exchange rates during the period; (3) transaction gains (losses)
taken to income in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards
Board Statement No. 52; and (4) all other realized and unrealized
gains (losses), net of income tax effects, that under generally
accepted U.S. accounting principles are to be included in income.
  2. Consists of unrealized gains (losses), net of income tax
effects, that under generally accepted U.S. accounting principles
are not included in the determination of net income.

Table II.F24
  1. For industry classification, sales by each foreign affiliate
were required to be disaggregated by three-digit International
Surveys Industry code; the affiliate was then classified in the
industry in which its sales were the largest (see the methodology
for discussion of industry classification).  When sales are
disaggregated by industry of affiliate, total sales of a given
affiliate are shown in the single industry in which the affiliate
was classified; when disaggregated by industry of sales, they are
distributed among all the industries in which sales were reported
(that is, sales associated with each industry of sales are shown
in that industry regardless of the affiliate's industry of
classification).
  2. In the breakdown of foreign affiliates' sales by industry of
sales, survey respondents were asked to specify only the five
industries in which the affiliates' sales were largest.
Therefore, for affiliates that had sales in more than five
industries, the distribution of sales in the specified industries
covered less than 100 percent of their total sales.  Sales in all
unspecified industries combined are shown in this column.

Table II.L1
  1. Includes capitalized expenditures for land, timber, mineral
and like rights owned, structures, machinery, equipment, special
tools, and other depreciable property; construction in progress;
and capitalized and expensed tangible and intangible exploration
and development costs (but not the costs of other types of
intangible assets) and land held for resale.
  2. Expenditures for research and development performed by the
parents, whether for themselves or for others under contract.
Excludes expenditures for research and development performed by
others for parents under contract.

Table II.N1
  1. For all industries combined and for each of the selected
industries shown, data in this line, which represents the
position with all transactors combined, are related to the data
in tables II.M1 and II.M2 as follows: Column 1 of this table is
equal to that part of column 3 of table II.M1 that are deposits;
columns 2-4 equal columns 4-6, respectively, of table II.M1;
column 5 plus column 8 are equal to that part of column 14 of
table II.M1 that are noncurrent receivables and long-term debt
and equity securities; column 9 plus column 12 equals column 3 of
table II.M2; and column 10 equals column 4 of table II.M2.
  2. Covers only U.S. parents in which there is direct investment
by a foreign person--that is, U.S. parents which are themselves
owned 10 percent or more by a single foreign person.  The foreign
parent is the foreign person that holds a direct investment
interest in the U.S. parent.  A foreign affiliate of the foreign
parent is any foreign person, proceeding down the ownership chain
of the foreign parent, that is owned more than 50 percent by the
person above it.

Table II.O1
  1. Includes "transfers in" of property, plant, and equipment
from foreign affiliates of the U.S. parent.
  2. Includes restatement due to a change in the entity.

Table II.O2
  1. Expenditures include the net book value of "transfers in" of
property, plant, and equipment from foreign affiliates of the
U.S. parent.
  2. Equals column 3 of table II.O1.

Table II.P1
  1. Consists of gains (losses), net of income tax effects,
resulting from (1) the sale, disposition, or revaluation of
assets; (2) the remeasurement of the U.S. parents'
foreign-currency-denominated assets and liabilities due to
changes in foreign exchange rates during the period; (3)
transaction gains (losses) taken to income in accordance with
Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 52; and (4)
all other realized and unrealized gains (losses), net of income
tax effects, that under generally accepted U.S. accounting
principles are to be included in income.

Table II.Q1
  1. As a general rule, sales of goods are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of establishments
in the following major industries:  Agriculture (except
agricultural services), forestry, and fishing; mining (except
mining services); petroleum (except petroleum services);
construction; manufacturing; and wholesale and retail trade.
(See the methodology for a discussion of the exceptions to this
rule.)  However, a parent that is not classified in one of these
industries may have sales of goods.
  2. As a general rule, sales of services are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of the
establishments in the following industries:  The "services"
division of the Standard Industrial Classification and the
International Surveys Industry Classification systems; petroleum
services; finance, insurance, and real estate; agricultural
services; mining services; transportation; communication; and
public utilities.  (See the methodology for a discussion of the
exceptions to this rule.)  However, a parent that is not
classified in one of these industries may have sales of services.
  3. Consists of investment income that is included in sales (or
gross operating revenues) in the income statement.  In the
finance and insurance industries, companies generally include
investment income in sales because it is generated by a primary
activity of the company.  In most other industries, companies
generally consider investment income an incidental revenue source
and include it in the income statement in a separate "other
income" category; in such cases, investment income is not
included in sales or in this column.

Table II.Q2
  1. For industry classification, each U.S. parent was required
to disaggregate its sales by three-digit International Surveys
Industry code; the U.S. parent was then classified in the
industry in which its sales were largest (see the methodology for
discussion of industry classification).  When sales are
disaggregated by industry of U.S. parent, total sales of a given
U.S. parent are shown in the single industry in which the parent
was classified; when disaggregated by industry of sales, they are
distributed among all the industries in which the U.S. parent
reported sales--that is, sales associated with each industry of
sales are shown in that industry regardless of the U.S. parent's
industry of classification.
  2. In the breakdown of U.S. parents' sales by industry of
sales, survey respondents were asked to specify only the eight
industries in which the parents' sales were largest.  Therefore,
for U.S. parents that had sales in more than eight industries,
the distribution of sales in the specified industries covered
less than 100 percent of their total sales.  Sales in all
unspecified industries combined are shown in this column.

Table II.R1
  1. Profit-type return measures profits from current production.
Unlike net income, it is measured before income taxes, and it
excludes nonoperating items (such as special charges and capital
gains and losses) and income from equity investments.
  2. Equals monetary interest payments plus imputed interest paid
minus monetary interest receipts minus imputed interest received.
Imputed interest paid and received, which are measures of the
value of services provided by life insurance carriers and
financial intermediaries without explicit payment, are estimated
by the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
  3. Equals taxes other than income and payroll taxes plus
production royalty payments to governments.

Table II.S2
  1. For industry classification, each U.S. parent was required
to disaggregate its sales by three-digit International Surveys
Industry code; the U.S. parent was then classified in the
industry in which its sales were largest (see the methodology for
discussion of industry classification).  When employment is
disaggregated by industry of U.S. parent, total employment of a
given U.S. parent is shown in the single industry in which the
parent was classified; when employment is disaggregated by
industry of sales, it is distributed among all the industries in
which the U.S. parent reported sales--that is, the number of
employees associated with each industry of sales are shown in
that industry regardless of the U.S. parent's industry of
classification.
  2. In the breakdown of U.S. parents' employment by industry of
sales, survey respondents were asked to specify only the eight
industries in which the parents' employment was largest.
Therefore, for U.S. parents that had employment in more than
eight industries, the distribution of employment in the specified
industries covered less than 100 percent of their total sales.
Employment in all unspecified industries combined and employees
in central administrative offices or headquarters are shown in
this column.

Table II.T1
  1. Covers only U.S. parents in which there is direct investment
by a foreign person--that is, U.S. parents that are owned 10
percent or more by a single foreign person.  The foreign parent
is the foreign person that holds a direct investment interest in
the U.S. parent.  The foreign parent group consists of (1) the
foreign parent of a U.S. parent, (2) any foreign person,
proceeding up the foreign parent's ownership chain, that owns
more than 50 percent of the person below it, and (3) any foreign
person, proceeding down the ownership chain(s) of each of these
members, that is owned more than 50 percent by the person above
it.
  2. Does not equal the total in column 3, which is derived from
data reported on affiliates' forms, because of differences in
timing and valuation and the inclusion of data for affiliates
covered on U.S. parents' forms but exempt from being reported on
affiliates' forms.

Table II.T2
  1. Covers only U.S. parents in which there is direct investment
by a foreign person--that is, U.S. parents that are owned 10
percent or more by a single foreign person.  The foreign parent
is the foreign person that holds a direct investment interest in
the U.S. parent.  The foreign parent group consists of (1) the
foreign parent of a U.S. parent, (2) any foreign person,
proceeding up the foreign parent's ownership chain, that owns
more than 50 percent of the person below it, and (3) any foreign
person, proceeding down the ownership chain(s) of each of these
members, that is owned more than 50 percent by the person above
it.
  2. Does not equal the total in column 3, which is derived from
data reported on affiliates' forms, because of differences in
timing and valuation and the inclusion of data for affiliates
covered on U.S. parents' forms but exempt from being reported on
affiliates' forms.
  3. A U.S. parent was required to disaggregate its U.S. exports
to "other" foreigners (that is, foreigners other than foreign
affiliates) by country of destination only if its exports to a
given country were $500,000 or more.  A U.S. parent's exports to
"other" foreigners in all countries to which its exports were
less than $500,000 were reported as a single item and are
classified in "unallocated."

Table II.T4
  1. Covers only U.S. parents in which there is direct investment
by a foreign person--that is, U.S. parents that are owned 10
percent or more by a single foreign person.  The foreign parent
is the foreign person that holds a direct investment interest in
the U.S. parent.  The foreign parent group consists of (1) the
foreign parent of a U.S. parent, (2) any foreign person,
proceeding up the foreign parent's ownership chain, that owns
more than 50 percent of the person below it, and (3) any foreign
person, proceeding down the ownership chain(s) of each of these
members, that is owned more than 50 percent by the person above
it.
  2. Does not equal the total in column 3, which is derived from
data reported on affiliates' forms, because of differences in
timing and valuation and the inclusion of data for affiliates
covered on U.S. parents' forms but exempt from being reported on
affiliates' forms.

Table II.T5
  1. U.S. imports shipped by "other" foreigners (that is,
foreigners other than foreign affiliates) to U.S. parents were
not disaggregated by country.  Thus, data in column 11, and hence
in columns 1, 12, 13, and 14, are available only for all
countries combined.
  2. Covers only U.S. parents in which there is direct investment
by a foreign person--that is, U.S. parents that are owned 10
percent or more by a single foreign person.  The foreign parent
is the foreign person that holds a direct investment interest in
the U.S. parent.  The foreign parent group consists of (1) the
foreign parent of a U.S. parent, (2) any foreign person,
proceeding up the foreign parent's ownership chain, that owns
more than 50 percent of the person below it, and (3) any foreign
person, proceeding down the ownership chain(s) of each of these
members, that is owned more than 50 percent by the person above
it.
  3. U.S. imports shipped by all foreign affiliates to U.S.
parents as reported on U.S. parents' forms were not disaggregated
by country.  Thus, data in column 15 are available only for all
countries combined.
  4. Does not equal the total in column 3, which is derived from
data reported on affiliates' forms, because of differences in
timing and valuation and the inclusion of data for affiliates
covered on U.S. parents' forms but exempt from being reported on
affiliates' forms.

Table II.U2
  1. The all-industries total equals the all-countries total in
column 2 of table II.Z1 and the all-industries total in column 2
of table II.Z2.
  2. The all-industries total equals the all-countries total in
column 3 of table II.Z1 and the all-industries total in column 3
of table II.Z2.

Table II.V1
  1. Includes interest received from affiliates.
  2. Includes interest paid to affiliates, plus withholding taxes
on such interest.
  3. Includes sales, consumption, and excise taxes; property and
other taxes on the value of assets and capital; and any remaining
taxes (other than income and payroll taxes).  Also includes all
payments of nontax liabilities (other than production royalty
payments), such as import and export duties, license fees, fines,
penalties, and similar items.

Tables II.W1, II.W2, and II.W4
  1. Includes common and preferred stock of affiliates owned by
U.S. parents and U.S. parents' equity in affiliates' additional
paid-in capital.  Also includes U.S. parents' equity in those
unincorporated affiliates for which detail on equity by type
could not be provided, less translation adjustments.
  2. U.S. parents' equity in retained earnings and other
reserves.
  3. Consists of the U.S. parents' share in the cumulative amount
of capital gains and losses associated with currency-translation
adjustments--that is, gains and losses that arise because of
changes in the exchange rates that are applied in translating
affiliates' assets and liabilities from their functional
currencies into U.S. dollars from the end of one accounting
period to the next.

Tables II.X1 and II.X2
  1. A net increase in U.S. parents' equity in affiliates is a
capital outflow; a net decrease is a capital inflow.
  2. Equals earnings (that is, the U.S. parents' share in the
earnings of their foreign affiliates) less distributed earnings
(that is, earnings distributed to U.S. parents before deduction
of foreign withholding taxes).
  3. An increase in U.S. parents' payables is a decrease in net
intercompany accounts and, therefore, a capital inflow.
  4. Consists of the U.S. parents' share in the amount of capital
gains and losses associated with currency-translation
adjustments--that is, gains and losses that arise because of
changes in the exchange rates that are applied in translating
affiliates' assets and liabilities from their functional
currencies into U.S. dollars from the end of one accounting
period to the next.

Tables II.Y1 and II.Y2 and II.Y4
  1. Excludes capital gains and losses.  As presented here, is
not adjusted to reflect current-period prices.  Prior to being
entered into the international transactions accounts, adjustments
to reflect current-period prices are made to direct investment
income on a global basis only.  These adjustments do not appear
in the direct investment income tables that are disaggregated by
country or by industry.
  2. U.S. parents' shares in the net income of their affiliates,
before deduction of foreign withholding taxes on distributed
earnings.
  3. Earnings distributed to U.S. parents before deduction of
foreign withholding taxes.
  4. Interest received by or credited to U.S. parents on debt
owed to them by their affiliates, less interest paid or credited
by U.S. parents on debt owed by them to their affiliates, both
before deduction of (foreign or U.S.) withholding taxes.

Tables II.Z1 and II.Z2
  1. Receipts are before deduction of foreign withholding taxes.
  2. Payments are before deduction of U.S. withholding taxes.

Tables II.Z4 and II.Z5
  1. Receipts are before deduction of foreign withholding taxes.
  2. Consists of receipts for services--such as management,
professional, or technical services--rendered between U.S.
parents and their foreign affiliates, whether in the form of
sales of services or reimbursements.  Sales of services are
receipts for services rendered that are normally included in
sales in the income statement of the seller; reimbursements are
receipts for services rendered that are normally included in
"other income" in the income statement of the provider of the
service.  See the methodology for further explanation.
  3. Payments are before deduction of U.S. withholding taxes.
  4. Withholding taxes on payments by U.S. parents for other
direct investment services may be negative because withholding
taxes on receipts for insurance services are netted against--and
may be larger than--withholding taxes on payments for insurance
services.
Tables II.Z8
  1. Consists of receipts for services--such as management,
professional, or technical services--rendered between U.S.
parents and their foreign affiliates, whether in the form of
sales of services or reimbursements.  Sales of services are
receipts for services rendered that are normally included in
sales in the income statement of the seller; reimbursements are
receipts for services rendered that are normally included in
"other income" in the income statement of the provider of the
service.  See the methodology for further explanation.
  2. Receipts are before deduction of foreign withholding taxes.
  3. Payments are before deduction of U.S. withholding taxes.
  4. Consists of fees and commissions for financial services.
Includes brokerage commissions on transactions executed for the
U.S. parent's (or foreign affiliate's) own account, or for the
account of customers, and includes selling concessions received
from a U.S. reporter (or foreign affiliate) who is a lead
underwriter.
  5. Consists of fees for carrying freight from the United States
to foreign destinations and for carrying freight between foreign
destinations.
  6. Consists of fees for: (1) Computer and data processing
services, including data entry, processing, and tabulation;
computer systems analysis, design, engineering, and custom
programming; and other computer services, including timesharing,
maintenance, and repair, and (2) database and other information
services, including business, financial, or technical databases;
reservation systems; and credit reporting and authorization
systems.
  7. Consists of fees for use of company-owned or -leased
communications channels and for value-added telecommunications
services, such as electronic or voice mail and management and
operation of data networks.
  8. The data in this column represent premiums paid by U.S.
parents to their foreign affiliates, net of claims paid by
foreign affiliates to their U.S. parents, on primary insurance
that is sold by foreign affiliates to their U.S. parents.  To
avoid duplication of data collected in other BEA surveys, the
intercompany insurance transactions covered by the 1994 benchmark
survey exclude all insurance that is sold by U.S. parents to
their foreign affiliates and reinsurance that is sold by foreign
affiliates to their U.S. parents.
  9. Consists of fees for carrying freight from foreign countries
to U.S. destinations or between foreign destinations.

Tables III.B2, III.B4, and III.B12
  1. Includes common and preferred stock and additional
paid-in-capital, less treasury stock.  Also includes total equity
in those unincorporated affiliates for which detail on equity by
type could not be provided.
  2. Includes retained earnings and other reserves.
  3. Consists of the cumulative amount of capital gains and
losses associated with currency-translation adjustments--that is,
gains and losses that arise because of changes in exchange rates
applied in translating affiliates' assets and liabilities from
their functional currencies into U.S. dollars from the end of one
accounting period to the next.

Table III.C1
  1. For unincorporated affiliates for which detail on equity by
type could not be provided, this item includes total owners'
equity.  Because these affiliates' cumulative retained
earnings--which are an internal, not an external, source of
funds--and translation adjustments were not reported separately,
they could not be excluded.
  2. Financial investments exclude current marketable securities.
In the annual survey publications for 1990-93 and 1995 forward,
current marketable securities are included in this item.  Because
the benchmark and annual estimates are not comparable,
year-to-year changes are not computed for this column.
  3. For all industries combined and for each of the selected
industries shown, data in this line, which represents the
position with all transactors combined, are related to data in
tables III.B3 and III.B4 as follows:  Column 2 of this table
equals column 3 of table III.B4; column 3 equals column 8 of
table III.B4; column 4 equals column 4 and that part of column 16
of table III.B3 that is stocks, bonds, noncurrent receivables,
and other equity investments.
  4. Data in this line, which represents the position with U.S.
parents, are related to the data in table III.W1 as follows:
column 2 of this table equals the "all countries" total in column
7 of table III.W1, plus the value of the net current liabilities
and long-term debt owed by affiliates that are financial
intermediaries to their U.S. parents (see the methodology for
further explanation); column 3 of this table equals column 3 of
III.W1, plus the value of translation adjustments to owners'
equity of unincorporated affiliates; and column 4 equals column 8
less that portion of column 8 that is the net book value of
property, plant, and equipment leased by foreign affiliates to
their U.S. parents under operating leases of more than 1 year,
plus the value of current and noncurrent receivables and
financial investments owed to affiliates that are financial
intermediaries by their U.S. parents.

Tables III.C2 to III.C9
  1. For unincorporated affiliates for which detail on equity by
type could not be provided, this item includes total owners'
equity.  Because these affiliates' cumulative retained
earnings--which are an internal, not an external, source of
funds--and translation adjustments were not reported separately,
they could not be excluded.
  2. Financial investments exclude current marketable securities.
In the annual survey publications for 1990-93 and 1995 forward,
current marketable securities are included in this item.  Because
the benchmark and annual estimates are not comparable,
year-to-year changes are not computed for this column.
  3. For each country, data in this line, which represents the
position with all transactors combined, are related to data for
the country in tables III.B1 and III.B2 as follows:  Column 2 of
this table equals column 3 of table III.B2; column 3 equals
column 8 of table III.B2; column 4 equals column 4 and that part
of column 16 of table III.B1 that is stocks, bonds, noncurrent
receivables, and other equity investments.
  4. For each country, data in this line, which represents the
position with U.S. parents, are related to data for the country
in table III.W1 as follows:  Column 2 of this table equals column
7 of table III.W1, plus the value of the net current liabilities
and long-term debt owed by affiliates that are financial
intermediaries to their U.S. parents (see the methodology for
further explanation); column 3 of this table equals column 3 of
III.W1, plus the value of translation adjustments to owners'
equity of unincorporated affiliates; and column 4 equals column 8
less that portion of column 8 that is the net book value of
property, plant, and equipment leased by foreign affiliates to
their U.S. parents under operating leases of more than 1 year,
plus the value of current and noncurrent receivables and
financial investments owed to affiliates that are financial
intermediaries by their U.S. parents.

Table III.C10
  1. For unincorporated affiliates for which detail on equity by
type could not be provided, this item includes total owners'
equity.  Because these affiliates' cumulative retained
earnings--which are an internal, not an external, source of
funds--and translation adjustments were not reported separately,
they could not be excluded.
  2. Financial investments exclude current marketable securities.
In the annual survey publications for 1990-93 and 1995 forward,
current marketable securities are included in this item.  Because
the benchmark and annual estimates are not comparable,
year-to-year changes are not computed for this column.
  3. For all industries combined and for each of the selected
industries shown, data in this line, which represents the
position with all transactors combined, are related to data in
tables III.B11 and III.B12 as follows:  Column 2 of this table
equals column 3 of table III.B12; column 3 equals column 8 of
table III.B12; column 4 equals column 4 and that part of column
16 of table III.B11 that is stocks, bonds, noncurrent
receivables, and other equity investments.
  4. For all industries combined, data in this line, which
represents the position with U.S. parents, are related to the
data in table III.W1 as follows: column 2 of this table equals
the "all countries" total in column 7 of table III.W1, plus the
value of the net current liabilities and long-term debt owed by
affiliates that are financial intermediaries to their U.S.
parents (see the methodology for further explanation); column 3
of this table equals column 3 of III.W1, plus the value of
translation adjustments to owners' equity of unincorporated
affiliates; and column 4 equals column 8 less that portion of
column 8 that is the net book value of property, plant, and
equipment leased by foreign affiliates to their U.S. parents
under operating leases of more than 1 year, plus the value of
current and noncurrent receivables and financial investments owed
to affiliates that are financial intermediaries by their U.S.
parents.

Tables III.D1, III.D2, and III.D3
  1. Includes the net book value of "transfers in" of property,
plant, and equipment.  For a given affiliate, "transfers in" are
from its U.S. parent or from other foreign affiliates of its U.S.
parent.
  2. Includes restatements resulting from a change in the entity
and revaluations of property, plant, and equipment to a fair
market or appraised value.

Tables III.D4 and III.D5
  1. Includes the net book value of "transfers in" of property,
plant, and equipment.  For a given affiliate, "transfers in" are
from its U.S. parent or from other foreign affiliates of its U.S.
parent.
  2. For table III.D4, column 2 equals column 3 of table III.D1;
for table III.D5, column 2 equals column 3 of table III.D2.


Tables III.D6, III.D7, and III.D8
  1. Includes the net book value of "transfers in" of property,
plant, and equipment.  For a given affiliate, "transfers in" are
from its U.S. parent or from other foreign affiliates of its U.S.
parent.

Table III.D9
  1. Consists of capital expenditures other than those for land,
timber, and mineral rights.

Tables III.E1, III.E2, and III.E8
  1. Consists of gains (losses), net of income tax effects,
resulting from (1) the sale, disposition, or revaluation of
assets; (2) the remeasurement of the foreign affiliates' assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies other than the
affiliate's functional currency, to reflect changes in foreign
exchange rates during the period; (3) transaction gains (losses)
taken to income in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards
Board Statement No. 52; (4) and all other realized and unrealized
gains (losses), net of income tax effects, that under generally
accepted U.S. accounting principles are to be included in income.
  2. Consists of unrealized gains (losses), net of income tax
effects, that under generally accepted U.S. accounting principles
are not included in the determination of net income.

Table III.F1
  1. Includes sales to the U.S. parent and its foreign
affiliates; equals the sum of columns 5 and 8.
  2. Sales charged by an affiliate to persons in the country
where the affiliate is located.
  3. Sales charged by an affiliate to persons in foreign
countries other than the country where the affiliate is located.
  4. As a general rule, sales of goods are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of establishments
in the following major industries:  Agriculture (except
agricultural services), forestry, and fishing; mining  (except
mining services); petroleum (except petroleum services);
construction; manufacturing; and wholesale and retail trade.
(See the methodology for a discussion of the exceptions to this
rule.)  However, an affiliate that is not  classified in one of
these industries may have sales of goods.
  5. As a general rule, sales of services are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of establishments
in the following industries:  The "services" division of the
Standard Industrial Classification and the International Surveys
Industry Classification systems; petroleum services; finance,
insurance, and real estate; agricultural services; mining
services; transportation; communication; and public utilities.
(See the methodology for a discussion of the exceptions to this
rule.)  However, an affiliate that is not classified in one of
these industries may have sales of services.
  6.  Consists of investment income that is included in sales (or
gross operating revenues) in the income statement.  In finance
and insurance, companies generally include investment income in
sales because it is generated by a primary activity of the
company.  In most other industries, companies generally consider
investment income an incidental revenue source and include it in
the income statement in a separate "other income" category; in
such cases, investment income is not included in sales or in this
column.

Tables III.F2 and III.F3
  1. Includes sales to the U.S. parent and its foreign
affiliates; equals the sum of columns 5 and 8.
  2. Sales charged by an affiliate to persons in the country
where the affiliate is located.
  3. Sales charged by an affiliate to persons in foreign
countries other than the country where the affiliate is located.

Table III.F7
  1. Sales charged by an affiliate to persons in the country
where the affiliate is located.

Table III.F9
  1. Includes sales to the U.S. parent and its foreign
affiliates; equals the sum of columns 5 and 8.
  2. Sales charged by an affiliate to persons in the country
where the affiliate is located.
  3. Sales charged by an affiliate to persons in foreign
countries other than the country where the affiliate is located.

Tables III.F13 and III.F14
  1. As a general rule, sales of goods are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of establishments
in the following major industries:  Agriculture (except
agricultural services), forestry, and fishing; mining  (except
mining services); petroleum (except petroleum services);
construction; manufacturing; and wholesale and retail trade.
(See the methodology for a discussion of the exceptions to this
rule.)  An affiliate that is not classified in one of these
industries may have sales of goods.
  2. Includes sales to the U.S. parent and its foreign
affiliates; equals the sum of columns 5 and 8.
  3. Sales charged by an affiliate to persons in the country
where the affiliate is located.
  4. Sales charged by an affiliate to persons in foreign
countries other than the country where the affiliate is located.

Tables III.F15 and III.F16
  1. As a general rule, sales of goods are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of establishments
in the following major industries:  Agriculture (except
agricultural services), forestry, and fishing; mining  (except
mining services); petroleum (except petroleum services);
construction; manufacturing; and wholesale and retail trade.
(See the methodology for a discussion of the exceptions to this
rule.)  An affiliate that is not classified in one of these
industries may have sales of goods.

Tables III.F17 and III.F18
  1. As a general rule, sales of services are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of establishments
in the following industries:  The "services" division of the
Standard Industrial Classification and the International Surveys
Industry Classification systems; petroleum services; finance,
insurance, and real estate; agricultural services; mining
services; transportation; communication; and public utilities.
(See the methodology for a discussion of the exceptions to this
rule.)  An affiliate that is not classified in one of these
industries may have sales of services.
  2. Includes sales to the U.S. parent and its foreign
affiliates; equals the sum of columns 5 and 8.
  3. Sales charged by an affiliate to persons in the country
where the affiliate is located.
  4. Sales charged by an affiliate to persons in foreign
countries other than the country where the affiliate is located.

Tables III.F19-III.F22
  1. As a general rule, sales of services are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of establishments
in the following industries:  The "services" division of the
Standard Industrial Classification and the International Surveys
Industry Classification systems; petroleum services; finance,
insurance, and real estate; agricultural services; mining
services; transportation; communication; and public utilities.
(See the methodology for a discussion of the exceptions to this
rule.)  An affiliate that is not classified in one of these
industries may have sales of services.

Table III.F23
  1. As a general rule, sales of goods are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of establishments
in the following major industries:  Agriculture (except
agricultural services), forestry, and fishing; mining  (except
mining services); petroleum (except petroleum services);
construction; manufacturing; and wholesale and retail trade.
(See the methodology for a discussion of the exceptions to this
rule.)  An affiliate that is not classified in one of these
industries may have sales of goods.
  2. As a general rule, sales of services are defined as sales
generated by activities that are characteristic of establishments
in the following industries:  The "services" division of the
Standard Industrial Classification and the International Surveys
Industry Classification systems; petroleum services; finance,
insurance, and real estate; agricultural services; mining
services; transportation; communication; and public utilities.
(See the methodology for a discussion of the exceptions to this
rule.)  An affiliate that is not classified in one of these
industries may have sales of services.
  3. Consists of investment income that is included in sales (or
gross operating revenues) in the income statement.  In finance
and insurance, companies generally include investment income in
sales because it is generated by a primary activity of the
company.  In most other industries, companies generally consider
investment income an incidental revenue source and include it in
the income statement in a separate "other income" category; in
such cases, investment income is not included in sales or in this
column.

Table III.F24
  1. For industry classification, each foreign affiliate was
required to disaggregate its sales by three-digit International
Surveys Industry code; the affiliate was then classified in the
industry in which its sales were the largest (see the methodology
for discussion of industry classification).  When sales are
disaggregated by industry of affiliate, total sales of a given
affiliate are shown in the single industry in which the affiliate
was classified; when disaggregated by industry of sales, they are
distributed among all the industries in which the affiliate
reported sales (that is, sales associated with each industry of
sales are shown in that industry regardless of the affiliate's
industry of classification).
  2. In the breakdown of foreign affiliates' sales by industry of
sales, survey respondents were asked to specify only the five
industries in which the affiliates' sales were largest.
Therefore, for affiliates that had sales in more than five
industries, the distribution of sales in the specified industries
covered less than 100 percent of their total sales.  Sales in all
unspecified industries combined are shown in this column.

Table III.G1, III.G2, and III.G5
  1. Profit-type return measures profits from current production.
Unlike net income, it is before income taxes, and it excludes
nonoperating items (such as special charges and capital gains and
losses) and income from equity investments.
  2. Equals monetary interest payments plus imputed interest paid
minus monetary interest receipts minus imputed interest received.
Imputed interest paid and received, which are measures of the
value of services provided by life insurance carriers and
financial intermediaries without explicit payment, are estimated
by the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
  3. Equals taxes other than income and payroll taxes plus
production royalty payments to governments less subsidies
received.

Table III.G7, III.G8, and III.G9
  1. Profit-type return measures profits from current production.
Unlike net income, it is before income taxes, and it excludes
nonoperating items (such as special charges and capital gains and
losses) and income from equity investments.

Tables III.H13, III.H14, and III.H19
  1. This table covers only data for foreign affiliates
classified in manufacturing.  It excludes data for affiliates
that are engaged in secondary manufacturing activities but are
not classified in manufacturing.

Tables III.I12, III.I13, and III.I16
  1. Capital goods and other equipment charged to the fixed asset
account.

Tables III.J1, III.J2, and III.J5
  1. Amounts shown in this column are on the same basis as
research and development expenditures totals for all U.S.
businesses shown in National Science Foundation publications.

Table III.J7
  1. Equals column 3, table III.Z1.
  2. Equals column 2, table III.Z1.

Tables III.K1, III.K2, and III.K3
  1. Includes sales, consumption, and excise taxes; property and
other taxes on the value of assets and capital; and any remaining
taxes (other than income and payroll taxes).  Also includes all
payments of nontax liabilities (other than production royalty
payments), such as import and export duties, license fees, fines,
penalties, and similar items.

Table III.L1
  1. Includes capitalized expenditures for land, timber, mineral
and like rights owned, structures, machinery, equipment, special
tools, and other depreciable property; construction in progress;
and capitalized and expensed tangible and intangible exploration
and development costs (but not the costs of other types of
intangible assets) and land held for resale.
  2. Measures expenditures for research and development conducted
by the parents, whether for themselves or for others under
contract.  Excludes expenditures for research and development
conducted by others for parents under contract.

Table III.W1
  1. Includes common and preferred stock of affiliates owned by
U.S. parents and U.S. parents' equity in affiliates' additional
paid-in capital.  Also includes U.S. parents' equity in those
unincorporated affiliates for which detail on equity by type
could not be provided, less translation adjustments.
  2. U.S. parents' equity in retained earnings and other
reserves.
  3. Consists of the U.S. parents' share in the cumulative amount
of capital gains and losses associated with currency-translation
adjustments--that is, gains and losses that arise because of
changes in the exchange rates that are applied in translating
affiliates' assets and liabilities from their functional
currencies into U.S. dollars from the end of one accounting
period to the next.

Table III.X1
  1. A net increase in U.S. parents' equity in affiliates is a
capital outflow; a net decrease is a capital inflow.
  2. Equals earnings (that is, the U.S. parents' share in the
earnings of their foreign affiliates) less distributed earnings
(that is, earnings distributed to U.S. parents before deduction
of foreign withholding taxes).
  3. An increase in U.S. parents' payables is a decrease in net
intercompany accounts and, therefore, a capital inflow.
  4. Consists of the U.S. parents' share in the amount of capital
gains and losses associated with currency-translation
adjustments--that is, gains and losses that arise because of
changes in the exchange rates that are applied in translating
affiliates' assets and liabilities from their functional
currencies into U.S. dollars from the end of one accounting
period to the next.

Table III.Y1
  1. Excludes capital gains and losses.  As presented here, is
not adjusted to reflect current-period prices.  Prior to being
entered into the international transactions accounts, adjustments
to reflect current-period prices are made to direct investment
income on a global basis only.  These adjustments do not appear
in the direct investment income tables that are disaggregated by
country or by industry.
  2. U.S. parents' shares in the net income of their affiliates,
before deduction of foreign withholding taxes on distributed
earnings.
  3. Earnings distributed to U.S. parents before deduction of
foreign withholding taxes.
  4. Interest received by or credited to U.S. parents on debt
owed to them by their affiliates, less interest paid or credited
by U.S. parents on debt owed by them to their affiliates, both
before deduction of (foreign or U.S.) withholding taxes.

Table III.Z1
  1. Receipts are before deduction of foreign withholding taxes.
  2. Payments are before deduction of U.S. withholding taxes.

Table III.Z4
  1. Receipts are before deduction of foreign withholding taxes.
  2. Consists of receipts for services--such as management,
professional, or technical services--rendered between U.S.
parents and their foreign affiliates, whether in the form of
sales of services or reimbursements.  Sales of services are
receipts for services rendered that are normally included in
sales in the income statement of the seller; reimbursements are
receipts for services rendered that are normally included in
"other income" in the income statement of the provider of the
service.  See the methodology for further explanation.
  3. Payments are before deduction of U.S. withholding taxes.


  Obtaining Information on U.S. Direct Investment Abroad
 BEA data on U.S. direct investment abroad are available on
diskettes, in publications, and on the Internet.

Diskettes and publications
 The financial and operating data for U.S. parent companies and
their foreign affiliates are available both on diskettes and in
publications.  The diskettes are available from the BEA.  The
publications for 1977 and 1982-91 are available from the National
Technical Information Service (NTIS), the publications for 1992
and 1994-95 are available from the U.S. Government Printing
Office, and the publication for 1993 is available from BEA.
 To order the diskettes and the publications, use the
information in the table to fill in the forms on the following
pages.
 The balance of payments and direct investment position data in
this publication are on a fiscal year basis.  Data on a
comparable basis are available only for 1977, 1982, and 1989 from
the benchmark surveys.  Data on a calendar year basis are
available for 1950-96.
 Summary data on a calendar year basis are published in the July
issues of BEA's monthly Survey of Current Business, and more
detailed data are published in the September issues.  Historical
data are available both on diskettes and in publications.
 To order the diskettes and the publications, use the
information in the table to fill in the forms on the following
pages.
      Years                                          Publication                                         Diskette/1/
     covered                  Title                   Source       Product or      Domestic  Foreign     BEA product     Price
                                                                  stock number      price     price        number
    Financial and operating data
      1977   U.S. Direct Investment Abroad, 1977       NTIS   PB82-130634           $84.00   $147.50  ..........................

      1982   U.S. Direct Investment Abroad, 1982       NTIS   PB86-169117           $71.50   $125.50  ..........................
             Benchmark Survey Data

             U.S. Direct Investment Abroad:
             Operations of U.S. Parent Companies
             and Their Foreign Affiliates
      1983            Revised 1983 Estimates           NTIS   PB87-131306           $27.00    $47.50   IDN-0029           $20.00
      1984            Revised 1984 Estimates           NTIS   PB88-100540           $27.00    $47.50   IDN-0030           $20.00
      1985            Revised 1985 Estimates           NTIS   PB89-121784           $27.00    $47.50   IDN-0031           $20.00
      1986            Revised 1986 Estimates           NTIS   PB90-114109           $27.00    $47.50   IDN-0032           $20.00
      1987            Revised 1987 Estimates           NTIS   PB90-258898           $27.00    $47.50   IDN-0033           $20.00
      1988            Revised 1988 Estimates           NTIS   PB92-101583           $27.00    $47.50   IDN-0034           $20.00

      1989   U.S. Direct Investment Abroad:  1989      NTIS   PB93-127702           $57.00   $114.00   IDN-0035           $20.00
             Benchmark Survey, Final Results

             U.S. Direct Investment Abroad:
             Operations of U.S. Parent Companies
             and Their Foreign Affiliates
      1990            Revised 1990 Estimates           NTIS   PB94-102175           $21.50    $43.00   IDN-0036           $20.00
      1991            Revised 1991 Estimates           NTIS   PB94-196425           $21.50    $43.00   IDN-0037           $20.00
      1992            Revised 1992 Estimates            GPO   003-010-00253-1        $6.50     $6.50   IDN-0038           $20.00
      1993            Revised 1993 Estimates            BEA   IPN-0161              $11.00    $11.00   IDN-0039           $20.00

      1994   U.S. Direct Investment Abroad:  1994       GPO            ??             ??        ??     IDN-0189           $20.00
             Benchmark Survey, Final Results

             U.S. Direct Investment Abroad:
             Operations of U.S. Parent Companies
             and Their Foreign Affiliates
      1995          Preliminary 1995 Estimates          GPO   003-010-00270-1        $9.00     $9.00   IDN-0163           $20.00
    Balance of payments and direct investment position data
     1950-76 Selected Data on U.S. Direct
             Investment Abroad, 1950-76                NTIS   PB87-121869            $51.50    $90.50 ..........................

     1977-81 U.S. Direct Investment Abroad: Balance    NTIS   PB87-178265            $27.00    $47.50 ..........................
             of Payments and Direct Investment
             Position Estimates, 1977-81

     1982-88 U.S. Direct Investment Abroad: Balance     BEA   IPN-0042                $6.00     $6.00 ..........................
             of Payments and Direct Investment
             Position Estimates, 1982-88

     1982-96 U.S. Direct Investment Abroad: Balance     BEA   ........................................ IDN-0137          $20.00
             of Payments and Direct Investment
             Position Estimates, 1982-96
      1. All files are copied onto high-density, 3 1/2-inch diskettes.  Documentation is included.
    NTIS National Technical Information Service
    GPO Government Printing Office


The Internet
 Data on U.S. direct investment abroad is available at two Web
sites on the Internet.
 The BEA Web site at <http://www.bea.doc.gov> provides summary
estimates and other information that cover all aspects of BEA's
work.  Information on U.S. direct investment abroad includes the
following: The latest summary data from BEA's quarterly, annual,
and benchmark surveys; an introductory guide to BEA statistics on
U.S. multinational companies; detailed methodological papers;
selected articles from the Survey of Current Business; and a
comprehensive list of BEA articles, publications, and diskettes
on direct investment.
 The STAT-USA Web site at <http://www.stat-usa.gov> is a
subscription service that offers detailed data files for BEA's
national, regional, and international accounts, a complete
electronic version of the Survey of Current Business, timely
access to BEA news releases, and economic statistics from other
Federal agencies.

Special tabulations and statistical analyses
 In some cases, BEA may make special tabulations or perform
regressions or other statistical analyses on the company-specific
data, at cost, within the limits of available resources and
subject to the legal requirements to avoid the disclosure of data
of individual companies.  However, because of the high level of
detail in which BEA's data are regularly produced and because of
concerns about confidentiality, data quality, and the consistency
of presentation, BEA has adopted a policy of generally limiting
tabulations to those regularly produced.  Data users requiring
special tabulations should submit their requests, including a
justification of need, in writing, and BEA will consider each
request on a case-by-case basis.  Requests should be directed to
the International Investment Division (BE-50), Data Retrieval and
Analysis Branch, Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of
Commerce, Washington, DC 20230.
 For other assistance, contact Ray Mataloni by writing to the
International Investment Division (BE-50), Research Branch,
Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce,
Washington, DC 20230, calling (202) 606-9867, or sending E-mail
to raymond.mataloni@bea.doc.gov.